Arbor Team Meeting
==================

2020-12-07 13:00

Attendees:
----------

Ben, Brent, Nora, Thorsten

Team Members Update (20 min)
----------------------------

Anne

Ben

-   Cable cell decor PR was finished and has been reviewed: Sam's PR
    review has two outstanding issues to address (try this afternoon)

    a.  how to obtain lid ranges from placed items (e.g. synapses for
        network building)

    b.  cleaner read-only implementation (not such a high priority)

Brent

-   Little progress with graphviz

    -   maybe use svgwrite directly after all.

Nora:

-   Finished STDP implementation. It's now ready for review.

-   Working on docs again: adding a more complex single-cell model
    example, and ring-model recipe.

-   Tip: use Gitpod to review large PRs

Sam

Thorsten

-   Github Actions debugging

-   GUI: store/load decorations in json format

-   Write out all fields (rm -\> membrane potential, no abbrev)

    -   only unit that differ between nrn and arbor is capacitance.

-   Dynamic loading of catalogues is ready for draft PR

Partners Update (5 min)
-----------------------

**ArborIO**: we need to plan a meeting to present information about
Arbor to the partners

-   General architecture information about Arbor

-   Answers to their specific questions and requirements (see [Arbor
    wiki](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/wiki/ArborIO-Technical-Questions))

-   December is not the best month for technical feedback: Sam on
    vacation and Ben MIA with CSCS reorg.

Remarks

-   Brent: Arbor architecture overview in documentation?

Concept docs (10 min)
---------------------

**Goal:** Everyone in the team to be familiar with the full arbor
concept docs and give feedback. Decide who works on fixing any issues we
may find.

1.  Will a new user reading the concept pages without going through the
    API understand the main ideas and concepts of Arbor?

    a.  how do we expect readers to approach the docs?

        i.  e.g. from a landing page

        ii. how well do we do this today

2.  Are any of sections particularly confusing, misplaced or
    unnecessary?

3.  Is there any missing information?

4.  Does the existing information flow well?

**Options**:

1.  We do this offline and people can give their feedback in written
    form.

2.  We have a meeting where we can discuss this informally, ideally
    after everyone has read the docs. We go through the docs section by
    section and give feedback/suggestions.

TODO: make wiki page where we all dump our opinions.

Next Meeting (3 min)
--------------------

Topics, break-out meetings

Tasks
-----

person(s): task (due date)
