Arbor Team Meeting
==================

2020-11-30 13:00

Attendees:
----------

Ben, Brent, Nora, Thorsten, Sam (briefly)

Team Members Update (20 min)
----------------------------

#### Anne

#### Ben

-   Finished PR for new cable cell interface. **please review!**

#### Brent

-   New website! No more bootstrap!

-   Ebrains "Winter of Documentation"

    -   Ebrains are building guidelines for documentation, TC are
        considering 'requiring' Sphinx.

    -   https://lists.fz-juelich.de/mailman/listinfo/hbp-ebrains-doc
        mailing list, a way to communicate between (documentation teams
        of) Ebrains projects

    -   Limiting the channels developers have to update (Plus, KG, TC
        wiki, etc) was raised: use KG entry for other channels.

-   Shailesh Appukuttan wants to work on an Arbor benchmark/validation
    (HBP Validation Framework). They're also working on a webtool to run
    and analyse models in the Knowledge Graph.

-   Q: include procedures in docs? Contributing section? But not other
    things, other 'meta-details' such as press-materials, publications
    (using Arbor), user-models, workflows, interop with other tools on
    the website. TODO: add link to website on docs.

#### Nora

-   Found and fixed time/time_to swap bug (in review)

-   First draft of STDP implementation, missing unit tests and possible
    optimizations.

-   CSCS technical reviews.

#### Sam

-   LFP progress. Problem: current injections.

#### Thorsten

-   User loadable user catalogs

-   Add s-exp wrapper for 'segment'

-   Slowly, slowly Github Actions

-   GUI

    -   NeuroML loader

    -   MacOS shennanigans

Partners Update (5 min)
-----------------------

#### ArborIO

The ArborIO collaborators had a meeting where they discussed their
requirements. They sent an email with a description of their
requirements and questions for us.

The email has been forwarded to "team Arbor", and I have reproduced the
questions on our wiki:

<https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/wiki/ArborIO-Technical-Questions>

We have to discuss our response.

#### FIPPA

Sebastian Schmitt has started testing out the STDP implementation, so
far seems so good. I'll add unit tests and finalize the PR this week,
but I'll be waiting to see if he thinks it is a good enough
implementation.

Slack (5 min)
-------------

History is limited.

-   Ben: this is a good point. Slack isn't a good spot to store
    information (even if we had unlimited history, the search
    functionality is poor). Should we be more active in trying to put
    information that we will want to use later in Wikis, share documents
    (like the CLA) on the ebrains drive, etc?

Alternatives

-   Preferable: easy to join for externals (rules out most/all
    institutional infra such as FZJ rocket.chat)

-   Ebrains are 'working on' a Matrix instance, Marc didn't reply to a
    request for ETA.

    -   Ben: not keen on using Ebrains infra: they are not good at
        providing such tools, and might require HBP account.

-   Discord [discord.com](https://discord.com/). It's free and has
    unlimited history.

    -   Does it have channels? Yes, private too. GH integration.

Docs (5 min)
------------

-   Meeting/discussion regarding structure?

-   What should be done before the next release.

Next Meeting (3 min)
--------------------

Topics, break-out meetings

Nora: sets up a Doc-meeting in some morning so Sam can join.

Tasks
-----

person(s): task (due date)
