# Arbor Team Meeting

2020-11-16 13:00

## Team Members Update (20 min)

#### Anne

#### Ben

* Made a PR with the API changes and unit tests for the new cable cell interface
  * changes to examples (C++ and Python) not implemented yet
  * please give feedback on the API changes before I finish the documentation and examples.
* Ben will respond to the discussion topic about segments vs. compartments
  * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/discussions/1240
* Promised to finish reviewing the Contributions PR
  * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1201

#### Brent

* No input on <https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1224> yet. Who wants to shoot?

#### Nora

* Reviewed python probes PR and Decor PR.
* Meetings and discussions on output formats.
* (Slow) progress on the docs front
* Worked with Sam on a linking problem that turned out to be related to symbol visibility. 

#### Sam

* Python probes in PR; a few more edits will see it in.
* Been chasing up info re: output formats for neuro sim output, etc.
* Next on the Python list: place_pwlin. Then mock up an LFPkit example and update the LFPy folk.
* Made an issue regarding mechanism future #1226; would like to keep this in discussion.

#### Thorsten

## Review (1m)

First quarterly review planned for 19/01/21 at 1 pm. 

## Partners Update (5 min)

* Openworm (Kirsten): tomorrow we'll discuss how to start with the Arbor port of her Neuron simulation. NeuroML and LEMS files. <https://github.com/KirHarms/neuro_sim_c_elegans>
* NeuroGPU, CoreNeuron. Have our own comparison? What quantities would we want to compare? 
  * We haven't had feedback from NeuroGPU, we'll continue working on a JSON input format that will facilitate the comparison of single-cell model performance between Arbor and NEURON. 

## Next Meeting (3 min)

Topics, break-out meetings

## Tasks

* Docs: Nora - task ends on 20/11/20
* STDP prototype: Nora - task starts on 23/11/20

## Other topics

* Smarter load balancer.
  * Using cell_kind info.
  * Using stats from the simulation runtime. 


