# Arbor Team Meeting

2020-11-09 13:00

**Attendees: **

**Ben, Brent, Thorsten, Anne, Sam, Nora**

## Team Member Update (20min)

#### Anne

#### Ben

#### Brent

#### Nora

* Mostly worked on docs, some small bug fixes and addressing comments on PRs. 

#### Sam

* Python probe diversity: all but the docs done; made a generic recipe version of the single cell model example for illustrating the interface.

#### Thorsten

## Partners Update (?? min)

FIPPA, ArborIO, etc.

* STDP
  * We have an issue up sketching a proposal for phenomenological STDP implementation.
  * Nora will take this on after 0.5 release stuff.

## Team org (30 min)

Let's discuss our organisational structure and decision making processes. We are more people now, and JSC has to be ready to go in 2yrs.

Some discussion points:

* Keeping track of activities such as external collab. Option: <https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/2>
* Explicit decision making process, to prevent circling back to certain issues. E.g. Person X does Y. Release N includes Z.
* Who does what? Task scheduling can by helped by typing tasks. E.g. Brent always responds to external communication, Nora always merges, Ben handles ArborIO coop.

## Next Meeting (3 min)

Topics, break-out meetings

## Tasks

* person(s): task (due date)

## Other business

* Copyright agreement between JSC and ETH has expired?


