Arbor Team Meeting 2021 06 29
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie or https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: NA, TH, BH, SY, BC

Mech ABI
========

* long in the making
* TH is gone as of friday
    * same story for #1521 and #1564
* Discussion
    * fmt library in modcc?
        * pro: modcc won't be here for ever, C++20 forward compatible.
        * pro&con: fmt functionality used is simple subset, so could replace now, or easily later.
        * con: added dependency, currently have CI failure on ARM.
        * **decision**: let's use fmt library

C++ Visibility
==============
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1599

- Issue solved by building all source files with `-fvisibility=hidden`
- Only place where explicit default visibility added is the generated mechanism catalogues.
- https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/Visibility suggests we add this:
```
#if defined _WIN32 || defined __CYGWIN__
  #ifdef BUILDING_DLL
    #ifdef __GNUC__
      #define DLL_PUBLIC __attribute__ ((dllexport))
    #else
      #define DLL_PUBLIC __declspec(dllexport) // Note: actually gcc seems to also supports this syntax.
    #endif
  #else
    #ifdef __GNUC__
      #define DLL_PUBLIC __attribute__ ((dllimport))
    #else
      #define DLL_PUBLIC __declspec(dllimport) // Note: actually gcc seems to also supports this syntax.
    #endif
  #endif
  #define DLL_LOCAL
#else
  #if __GNUC__ >= 4
    #define DLL_PUBLIC __attribute__ ((visibility ("default")))
    #define DLL_LOCAL  __attribute__ ((visibility ("hidden")))
  #else
    #define DLL_PUBLIC
    #define DLL_LOCAL
  #endif
#endif
```
- Can we get away with `[[gnu::visibility("default")]]`? Can someone test this on WSL?
    - **decision**: we don't need the windows/CYGWIN/ancient GCC support.
    - [SY] We can add that later if we wrap things in a define, if we want to support native Windows.

Gap Junctions
=============
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1600
- Is it time to start working on this? Lennart is starting to ask for it.
- [NA] Most straight forward way to implement this seems to be as a new kind of mechanism with a new callback `UPDATE_CONDUCTANCE` that takes `delta_v` as an argument provided by the simulator.

Arbor presentations
===================
- Should we add our presnetations to https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-materials?
    - Right now, most live here: https://github.com/eth-cscs/bernstein
- PASC21 presentation: https://mcnest.slack.com/archives/G017HJ3BY8H/p1624633123020500

Partners
========

* Stochastic processes: Max is working on this? Do we refer arborio people asking about this to him?
* Complex synapses: Who translates this to NMODL?
    * [NA] I can try but I don't think I'm qualified.
    * Egidio's lab does not understand the NMODL and expect us to do it.
    * **decision**
        * refer them to Sam for enquiries
        * Sam works _with_ them to develop the new implementation
        * Provide a first pass, and get them to do the validation.

Other
=====

* SY wants to consolidate the s-expression code because before we add the next feature that requires it (spatial varying )
    * [NA] we merged the latest s-expr code.
    * [BC] asked for a time estimate for prioritisation of work.

* BC is collaborating with a team at ETHZ that have a nice framework https://www.cse-lab.ethz.ch/korali/
    * Have a look: does it look useful.
    * [SY] might be time to look at the parameterised recipe.

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

