Arbor Team Meeting 2021 03 16
=============================

Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: Brent, Ben, Thorsten, Nora, Sam

xSDK Community Package Policies
===============================

* Having read the policies, and rateyourproject.org, any points to discuss?
* Brent (generated links are incomplete)
    * rateyourproject.org
        * On-/offboarding: missing. Solution: a guided tour of Arbor
        * Team awareness/inclusivity: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1224
        * Performance testing (as matter of CI): missing
        * deployment: working on it
        * documentation: can improve (particularly design/internal docs)
        * TH: Agreed, see [1] (link is incomplete)
        * NA: We should also improve our planning.
    * xSDKCommunityPackagePolicies-V0.6.0
        * R3, R5, R7 (CHANGELOG, SUPPORT), R8 (Each xSDK member package should have sufficient documentation to support use and further development. Instructions for on-ramping new developers;)
        * BC: someone at CSCS is working on getting their code added to xSDK, and the process is a bit arbitrary, but worthwhile.

* Observations (in meeting):
    * Prioritize development of automatic performance testing?
    * Linting:
        * At least can use tools for Python automatically.
        * Incorporate sanitizer-enabled runs in CI?
        * Possibility of linter reports being only advisory.
    * Let's move these (and above) into issues.
    * Checklist issue for xSDK policies, long lasting.


Arbor-GUI
=========

- Spent two weeks on polish and features.
  - more colours.
  - saving rendered image to png.
  - picking segment/branch under cursor.
  - re-organised & homogeneous UI.
  - made the core a bit cleaner.
  - Support for (almost?) all paint/placeables.
  - more control via KB.
  - re-orienting the morphology
  - ... lots more ...
- Waiting for ASC and Cable Cell PRs. Shims exists already
- Release target with 0.6.

Open questions:
- git submodules for dependencies?
    - including the arbor dependency
    - consider some deps as part of the repo (e.g. fonts and icons)
- as a repo under `github/arbor-sim` ?
    - yes, for the release.

String representations & ArborIO
================================

The split between ArborIO and the main library has been a pain point for
the "Arbor file format" work.
* The idea was raised by BC to add serialisation-deserialisation re s-expressions to the core library
    * ArborIO would handle the file I/O.
    * Consistent printing (`print()` or `operator <<(ostream&, T)`) across back ends that can be used as input (following `__repr__` philosophy)
        * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1433 ?
* SY sees a future where multiple representations with no preferential treatment of one over the other.
* BC proposes settling on a canonical representationin place of multiple "equal" representations for the same thing.

Python formatting
* define consistent formatting for `__str__` representations
    * define in C++ land and simply wrap in Python?
* work on making `__repr__` definitions `eval`able
    * e.g. as s-expression strings + python call that interprets them.

Partners
========

**Starfish model** - strong reliance on CV policy:
I had assumed that neuron's default discretization policy is similar to Arbor's : 1 CV per branch, it's actually 1 CV per section. I had misremembered Neuron's definitions for various parts of the morphology, an Arbor branch can be multiple Neuron sections.
The Neuron morphology generated from the NeuroML file is formed of sections that follow the region boundaries, so Neuron ends up with CVs that only belong to a single region.
On the other hand, Arbor's default discretization would end up generating CVs that belong to multiple regions.
* BC: I am curious to find out why the discretization did not follow the regions in the starfish case.
    * NA: because NRN sections vs. Arbor branches

That was the main difference between Arbor and Neuron. If we use the *actual* same CV policy as Neuron, we get the same results.
It might still be worth investigating why a CV spanning multiple regions with different dynamics produces such different results than 2 CVs separated at the boundary; and whether that is a problem we want to solve.


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------


References
----------
[1] http://rateyourproject.org/assessment/?development=revision_control%3D66%26code_reviews%3D100%26issue_tracking%3D100%26deployment%3D33%26documentation%3D100&planning=development_process%3D100%26contribution_management%3D100%26requirements_analysis%3D33%26software_design%3D33%26onboarding%3D0%26offboarding%3D0&performance=performance_testing%3D33%26performance_regression_testing%3D0%26performance_portability%3D33&reliability=testing%3D100%26reproducibility%3D33&collaboration=virtual_tools%3D66%26telecommuting_communication_practices%3D33
