Marc didn't reply toArbor Team Meeting
==================

2021-01-04 13:00

Attendees:
----------

Ben, Brent, Sam

Team Members Update (20 min)
----------------------------

Anne

Ben

-   Pet project: trace analysis

Brent

-   Arblang \<\> NeuroML(ite)? NineML?

-   RTD isnt building

Nora

Sam

-   Going to work on LFP

-   Synchronize eBrains developer enquiry?

Thorsten

Partners Update (5 min)
-----------------------

Setup with Padraig re:NeuroML+Arbor (20 min)
--------------------------------------------

-   Interested in following up on Kirstens work of running more and more
    of Openworm on Arbor.

-   Requirements

    -   Supporting neuroml binary mech interface is dependent on having
        Arblang

    -   synapses with dynamics (nmda?)
        scaling/blocking/plasticity/analog(constantly transmitting, like
        gap junc with dynamics) (?)

    -   Does Padraig need to support simulator-specific things in
        NeuroML? Add Arbor-specific stuff to NeuroML?

    -   Are there more requirements?

-   Brent will setup meet last week jan, first week feb.

Next Meeting (3 min)
--------------------

Topics, break-out meetings

Tasks
-----

person(s): task (due date)
