Arbor Team Meeting 2021 05 18
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie
Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: TH, NA, BH, SY

ABI / New release
=================
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1452
- Still waiting :(
    - [SY] (Review is underway, but was distracted by bug reports. Also, I need to continue review on https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1504)

New release.
============
- Mechaniusm ABI (#1452)
- Target labels (#1504)
- Alpha GUI
    - Hackathon?
- Aim for mid-june
    - TODO: sync this list and list under GUI with https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3

GUI
===
- Simulation support is coming
- Feature requests discussion from last week
- [SY] Steps required before an alpha release?
    - off-master development (pulls, issues)
    - cell serialized format (cv-policies is the main blocker)
    - CV S-Exp
- Move repo to arbor-sim?
    - yes!

Change name of primary Arbor branch?
====================================
- [SY] General consesus is that changing to `main` is fine (confirm?)
- Related: nsuite branches? `master` and `dev` a little confusing. [TH] suggests: `arbor-stable` and `arbor-latest`. [SY] How about `stable` and `dev`? We can paint this shed later.

S-Exp Parsing
=============
- PR & Issue
  - https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1511
  - https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1419
- Currently we have duplicated machinery in arborio and arbor
- PR would add one more duplication (triplication?)
- Can we agree to move all parsing into
  - arborio,
  - arbor,
  - sup, or similar?

Sanitizers
==========
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1521
- Need a workaround in tinyopt, else clean
    - [SY] I thought we weren't going to run the memory sanitizer because of how we have no instrumented libstdc++?
- Valgrind would be a nice addition
- Obviously OpenMPI leaks like it's going out of style, so excluded.
- Will need an instrumented version of libstdc++

Modcc: writing ion concentrations
=================================
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1528
- Issue linked above studies arbor and neuron's behaviors when nmodl code *writes* ion concentrations. Arbor's behavior is sane.
- Will close https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1276 if Thorsten agrees. (Update: issue still needs a fix).
- What is the expected behavior here:
```
NEURON {
    SUFFIX ca_write
    USEION ca READ ica WRITE cai VALENCE 2
}
STATE    { concentration
           cai}
INITIAL  { concentration = cai }
```
- [SY] Let's decide on what semantics we want from ion concentration writing (at least partially based on what people are doing in NEURON), and then fix our implementation to suit.

Cell models: zero radii?
========================
- Raised in #dev chat: should we allow internal points of zero radius? Sebastian suggests we do a model review.
- There is an ModelDB old scraper (Ben?), could be used for the review.
- Process from here: the bug resolution should be to throw an error on internal zero radii, and fix the rational evaluator. New issue: question of supporting this; performing a ModelDB scrape and test for supporting evidence.

Docs
====

- NA may work on filling out some of the blanks in the docs this week. Would that interfere with anyone's work?
- BH can move a few small changes to your branch/PR?

Arblang
=======
- I think it's time to get things started again. Should we schedule a meeting this week?
- Thursday 27.05.21 morning mooted for arblang chat.

Explicit generators (postponed)
===============================
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1488
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/581
- Proposal to refactor them out. Use `schedule_generator` with an explicit schedule instead.
- This would simplify the semantics of PR https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1504 (placeable item identification using labels instead of indices).

Partners
========

* Haven't heard from Lennart in a while, but Robin is getting started.

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

- TH: Update #1419 and get a discussion going.
-


Next time
---------




