Arbor Team Meeting
==================

2021-01-25 13:00

Attendees:
----------

Team Members Update (20 min)
----------------------------

Anne

Ben

-   What are our responsibilities as Arbor devs? How far do we go with
    helping people set up the Arbor Python package?

-   Wheels are nice! Not optimized probably?

-   Robin knows how to make wheels

Brent

Nora

Sam

Thorsten

-   Parameter opt

    -   L2L not very nice.

        -   slow?

    -   https://emcee.readthedocs.io/

    -   Why not bluepyopt?

        -   It's very simple.

-   Fixing range desc in modcc

Partners Update (5 min)
-----------------------

Point of order (1 min)
----------------------

Notification of extended absence: use calender?

Discussion on Arbor Calender, and having an open Google Meet (currently
nobody can enter a meet unless the inviter is present and accepts). Only
way around this is accepting the invite with your gmail account:
https://support.google.com/a/users/answer/9850339

We keep using calender.

JSON Format (10 minutes)
------------------------

-   Will we offer long-term support? Should we use versions?

-   Make the format more complete (refer to slack \#dev for proposal)

-   Region/locset representation: labels vs. s-expressions.

    -   S-expressions necessary for clean decor-\>json-\>decor round
        trip.

-   Issue: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1322

Review PRs (3 min)
------------------

-   Sometimes PRs are left hanging for long.

    -   Also after addressing a request for changes.

-   Can we improve this? Some projects have a promise to get review
    within a timeframe.

Next Meeting (3 min)
--------------------

Topics, break-out meetings

Tasks
-----
