Arbor Team Meeting 2021 06 08
=============================

Meeting link: https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: BH TH NA SY BC

The Threadpool and unbounded Stacks
===================================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1570

- Stack overflows with many (20k on my Mac) cells
- Came up via Robin, but reduced to a minimal example
  - Original had python + custom recipe
  - This is just the `null_recipe` with 20k cells
  - ASAN was extremely helpful
      - ASAN == ?
- Reason: `taskgroup::wait` produces unbounded stacks
- NA has an idea for a fix and will try to implement
  - SY suggested more and more baroque alternatives

Slack :arrow_right: Gitter
==========================

## PRO

1. Open default channel
2. Unbounded history
3. No corp involved
4. No account needed (except GH / Google / Twitter)
5. Matrix-accessible (pick your client)
6. Webclient faster and lighter:
    * Gitter: Load/completed 1.59s / 5.33s. Size/Transfer 1.84MB / 465kB
    * Slack:  Load/completed 6.47s / 8.59s. Size/Transfer 15.76 MB / 3.96MB
7. Seems to have the same functionality, e.g. integrations (see #dev)
8. Access Pybind Gitter in the same web interface:)

## CON

- Inertia ;)
- Cannot import Slack history
- can't create an account

## Open

- BC: how to disable permissions?

Partners
========

* Arborio:
    *  NA has been verifying Robin's model. Almost have the single soma version verified but with some strange behavior that depends on the length of the branch. Sam has kindly accepted to take a look.
    * Once the full morphology is added, the results start to differ from Neuron: there's a bit of a shift and the peak of the spikes is lower.
    * I haven't written a guide on how to do this. I can write some rough guidelines but each case is different and requires an understanding of how arbor and neuron work. It's a matter of trying and gaining experience: In this case:
        * We had unit conversion issues in FARADAY
        * Some of the mechanism's state variables weren't being initialized at all.
        * Some variables were being intialized in the wrong order.
        * Nernst was being used incorrectly.
        * Arbor's `neuron_parameter_defaults` don't match neuron's parameter defaults (this I'm unsure about and will need to verify before opening an issue).
* Keep adding gotchas to `fileformat/nmodl.rst`

Arblang
=======
* Second meeting this Thursday 10:30 - 11:30.
* Meeting invite was sent.
* Previous proposals: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/npGnp4dMQrGg8sp_ZpUiqA?view

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

* Checkout #strategy

Next time
---------




