
Arbor Team Meeting 2021 05 25
=============================

Meeting link: https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: TH

GUI Release Plan
================

1. Simulation support.
2. ACC import
    * CV S-Exp
    * CV rendering off by default
4. Marker visuals
5. CV rendering: allow stacking
6. Catalogue Import
7. Sync to Arbor Main (@0.6)
8. Binary Artifacts from CI
9. Find a name.
10. Migrate to Arbor Org, possibly eBrains


SVE with Clang 11/12
====================
* BC reported unit test failures on the ault fujitsu nodes when compiling with Clang 11 and 12.
* NA tried to chase down the bug:
    * Tests pass when compiling in debug mode and with -O0 optimizations. Start to fail with higher optimization levels.
    * Could be related to register spilling. We've faced something similar before. The bug is strange, the value returned by a function seems to not be equal to the value assigned from the returned value.
    * The following warning is printed many times: `warning: Compiler has made implicit assumption that TypeSize is not scalable. This may or may not lead to broken code`. I tracked it down in the Clang code base, and comments surrounding it, as well as comments from a recent patch to LLVM main suggest that the SVE support is experimental.
    * Could not recreate the bug in a small isolated example.
* Are we breaking the SVE model? Should we wait and see?


Partners
========

* We discussed that Robin has been interacting with us frequently
*


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------




