Arbor Team Meeting 2021 11 16
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: NA, BC, TH, AK, LK

Reminders
=========
1. Preparation of developer meeting: **tomorrow, Wednesday, 17th Nov, 11:00-14:00**, here https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000, minutes here https://demo.hedgedoc.org/EWHfSffPQuWI-n3jwmDLYg
--> discuss on Gitter (instead of meeting on Wednesday, since TH cannot join), new room created by NA
2. Developer meeting: **next week Wednesday, 24th Nov, 10:00-13:00**, here https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-clp-qgu-ypp, minutes here https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-materials/blob/master/minutes/devmeets/
--> include issues from ArborIO, FIPPA and outputs from prior meetings into agenda [NA]

Team Training Update
====================
* [AK, BH] no offers yet, but in the making
* [AK] preparing justification "letter" for funding through Horizon 2020; suggestion would be to fund the training via Horizon2020 and (if in person at FZJ/surrounding) travel costs by CSCS

Visibility
==========
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1752
* [NA] Building examples with hidden visibility fixes the issue, but I'm not sure whether that should be necessary.
* [BC] suggestion: remove hidden visibility and see what breaks in pybind11
* [TH] appears in non-M1 Mac, too

CI on Mac M1? 
=============
* Mac M1 is now set up for external access through ela.cscs.ch. 
* [NA] It still lives at my place, but I can move it to the office and keep it turned on and accessible. 
* [NA] I am afraid the CI will be too fragile. 
* [BC] suggestion: only use for debugging and periodically testing the build

# NML2 [TH]

Slowly -- it's my pet project, so work is intermittent -- progressing towards being able to dump to NMODL.
This is the first step, so I can double check my work. Then we'll see if we can build towards the ABI.
As a byproduct, I am building the NML2 developer's guide, since I need it and it's missing so far. 
Pestering Padraig and Co is currently the only way to get answers.

I had to discard the idea of making a list of known channels and composing those, NML2 is too dynamic.

# Diffusion [TH]

- It's running, but doing nothing on the concentrations
  - or crashing PyArb with double free.
  - C++ example currently stuck on sampling API.
  - [BC] see `ion_data_map`, make all ions available everywhere on cost of addl storage, maybe comptl costs
  - [NA] suggestion: switch behavior between all avail and current way
- I am retracing the methods underneath Arbor and writing the mathematical model for diffusion alongside it. See also next item.

# Math Model Monday [TH]

I have an open PR on developer documentation and Max asked for our mathematical foundations. 
My suggestion: Let's sit down, share a virtual whiteboard and (re-)derive our cable equation.
It's annoying, but currently Ben is the only one who has done it before. Also, the `report`/`cable_equation`
docs are outdated.

Partners
========

* [AK] MS Azure: no updates from Boris/Thomas Lippert
* [From last week] Random123
    * Was added before they created their github repo and we're a few versions behind. Do we update? Or add it as an external module as Max suggested a while ago?
    * Talk to Ben on how to handle header-only files
    * TH favors updating (read: more submodules)
    * NA be aware of HIP
    * BC: no problem with making random123 a submodule; note on HIP: make PR to their repo for patch for HIP
* [From last week] Lennart's requests for shared state variables between cells, and gap-junctions that can receive spikes. We need to schedule a meeting to get more info. Would be good if [BC] can attend. 
    * Suggestion: Arborio checkin 2 on 29th Nov
    * Ask for high level description and overall goals, refer to roadmap writeup
    * BC suggestion: cut out some time out (last 45mins) of dev meet on 24th Nov to give them homework to describe in more detail 
* [From last week] Complex Synapses
    * Heard back from [SY], he will write up his notes soon. He's been working with AMPA and NMDA models. There's also GABA, but I think they're all similar.


Personel
=========
* Will Fabian and Anton be joining gitter and the team meetings?
  * [BC] Anton won't be joining the project because he just announced that he is leaving CSCS
    * Sad
  * [BC] I gave Fabian an overview of Arbor, and gave him the task of stochastic odes
      * he will talk with Nora tomorrow (november 17)
      * issue for v0.7

Other Issues & PRs
==================
* Review request: SIMD bug. 
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1735

* Robin visiting: November 22-25
* Misc: SLU was asking about a short video on Arbor introduction; we only have 40mins from July 2019 here https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0CgI-ZOdXYo&list=PLvAS8zldX4CjbfY9RUXrgmR6_774c04wD

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

Next time
---------
