Arbor Team Meeting 2021 10 19
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: BC, BH, NA, TH, AK
Excused: LK

Partners Issues
===============

* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Project%3A+Fippa%22
    * discussions ongoing, though almost no assignees, no project assigned
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Project%3A+Arborio%22
    * discussions ongoing, though almost no assignees, no project assigned

Key Issues (selected by NA)
---------------------------
These need a feasibility study (estimated to be a lot of work). If we choose to implement, we need a design plan and a time line for implementation: 
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1709 "Receive spikes on electrical gap junctions" - Not relaistic. Don't know if they can work around it.
    - [BC] Ask for more info
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1704 "Combining mechanisms into a single mechanisme for performance increase of the GPU backend" - Not really a priority with modcc, maybe arblang (going slowly). Can be done manually.
    - Yes, good idea, but impractical until we get RT compilation. Ask what their prio is.
    - [TH] asks Qs
    - AK: possible MSc/PhD project? 
      [TH] Lots of engineering, for questionable gain.
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1705 "Change mechanism parameters during simulation" - Useful, but will require quite a bit of work and API design. I don't know if they can work around it or if it's required. 
    - NA: requires rebuild parts of cable cell. Lot of work
    - [TH] does it? we could 'just' write into `shared_state`
    - [NA] If Fabian does #1655, maybe I'll do this one.
    - Might fit in with steering
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1655 "Stochastic differential equations in mechanisms" - Quite a bit of work: new solver, parser/renaming issues, random number generation, seed generation. 
    - [NA]: give this prio? 2-4 weeks
    - Maybe good starter issue for new Arbor dev? Fabian
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1651 "Support for axial diffusion" - there's a plan, needs to be implemented. 
    - [TH] Plan by me, can pick it up, if taking precedence over NML2
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1650 "Inhomogeneous parameters" - Big issue, designed by Sam.

Other
-----

* Anton: might be good dev for generic cell group #1605

Release cycle and relevant meetings
===================================

[BH, AK] **Suggestion** 
* release every 3 months (at time T)
* T-11 weeks: [all] Add your favorite Issues to the next-rel column
* T-10 weeks: prep dev meet (internal [AK])
    * Update/trim next-release column in Kanban.
    * Add milestone tags, nextver or nextver+1, etc.
* T-8 weeks: dev meet (external/public [BH])
    * Use Kanban as starter.
    * Maybe move some issues around.
    * Add milestone tags, maybe also next release tags
* TÂ±0: release! [BH]
* T+1 weeks: retrospective two weeks after release [AK]

**Next dates** (for now instead of team meeting):

* 10 nov, 10:00-13:00: prep-dev meet
* 24 nov, 10:00-13:00: dev meet
* 19 jan: next release
* 25 jan, 13:00-14:00: retrospective meet

BC: maybe reserve more time than 1hr per meet.

**Responsibilities:** 
AK sets up pre-dev meet, BH the dev meet, AK the retrospective meet.

**Preparation:** 
Please go over your issues/PRs and assign to correct state (backlog, next release, in progress, review) so that we have an updated Kanban board

TODO:
- add Issues by default to backlog column.
- Keep Arborio checking separate.

Partners
========

* Robin's model. Arbor is back to being (slightly) faster than neuron. External catalogue weren't being built in release mode. 


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* [AK] Mail to arbor-sim regarding brand name and domain names
* [AK] Been asked for my availability for an EC review of CompBioMed2 project (3 full days, January 2022)
* [BH] Will be off for a month, probably starting next week.
* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------
 
