Arbor Team Meeting 2021 09 28
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

MSc/PhD project: high level netwerk description
===============================================

* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/418
* possibly https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1680 ?
* At FZJ:
    * Guest student program
    * Chinese Scholarship Council call

Defaults
========

* How many threads by default?
    * Earlier discussion, PR rejected. This set it for both C++ and Python
    * Requested: `arbor.context(jezus_take_the_wheel=True)`
    * NA proposal:
        default_resources = arbor.default_resources() #gets you default MPI comm if MPI is enabled, default number of threads available, default GPU if enabled and available.
        context = arbor.context(default_resources)
* It's not the first time sysadmin and end-user (Pythonic) preferences/expectations clash. The Python API already has Pythonic things in it, this is not a bad thing.

Many open PRs
=============

* Let's go over them and assign?
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

Partners
========

* BH: Tomorrow: 1:1 w/ Mario. No agenda. Well, I'll propose a FIPPA checkin, but he has something to say/ask clearly.
* 


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

