Arbor Team Meeting 2021 10 26
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: TH, BH, AK, BC, LK

Raising hands
=============

[AK] Since in the last two meetings there were (again) issues with hands not being seen (I apologize for that), could we agree on literally raising our hands? I'll focus more on actually seeing you.


Versions of dependencies
========================

Minor problem discovered after merge of #1711, see #1717.

1. How best to fix the concrete issue?
    * Revert?
2. How to pr event accidents in the future?
    * Proposal: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1731
    * had some input. [BH] will summarize
        * two new pages in docs:
            * release checklist
            * version bump checklist
        * Q: can we define a minimum like 2.8.2 but allow 2.8.3+? in spack file
          [TH] in particular *semver* in spack, ie 2.8.3 meaning at least that, but up to (excl!) 2.9.0
            * [BH] answer: depends_on('py-pybind11@2.8.2:2.8')
        * [TH] Linter to check compatible versions in spack and submodules, possibly pip (numpy) as well.
        * update our spack file (e.g. numpy has no version)
    * make each version bump a separate PR
    * track dep last-stable more closely
    * PR template for version bump.
        * requires review by [BH]

Axial Diffusion
===============
[TH] Design and draft PR up. Scared to death of the units involved. 
Comments welcome & Happy Halloween.
* BC will take a look 

Partners
========

* MS Azure came back to us. They are very keen to collaborate and take the first step with an Arbor + MS Azure hackathon; discuss ideas for the hackathon in more detail, to better determine what might be required in terms of resource and also to see what can put in place in terms of marketing support, system access and also start to have a think about timeframes; need to hold back, since there is no answer from Boris, yet. Until then we might think about if/what we want to get out of this.
    * What do _we_ get out of this? Free benchmark?
        * A data point on how well Azure works compared to CSCS/FZJ
        * worth the price?
    * Windows support (implemented by MS)
        * what's in it for them?
* [NA] Robin was asking for access to GPU resources on Piz Daint. Solution: Resend request to support team.

HLST (High Level Support Team)
====

HLST/DIR requests an internal interim review on HLST efforts (from start of SGA3 until now/WIP) - excluding support vouchers of CEoI grants **by end of Nov** (see https://drive.ebrains.eu/f/6348c9de5b0243979ca9/) directed to HBP Leadership including, e.g., 

* user-initiated requests leading to direct HLST support actions (e.g., requests through Zammad tickets, EBRAINS Gitlab, Internal Showcases)
* support through tool-specific channels such as mailing lists or issue trackers
* contributions to the development of EBRAINS tools and services, and 
* development of documentation and training and tutorial materials

HEP will send around examples for NEST. So let's see how comprehensive his report will be.

In the meantime I would kindly ask you to **add all your HLST efforts to the list** BH started until **12th Nov** with a note if it's CEoI related. I will then put it into a report.

* [BH] Preliminary list: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/oHtPfWCtRfqyvV-o4pZL2A?edit

Organization
=============
Please put (longer than one day) vacations into our joint Arbor calendar 

URL (to be added into your calender client):
* https://framagenda.org/remote.php/webdav/
* Some clients may require a direct URL to the calendar: https://framagenda.org/remote.php/dav/calendars/arbor/personal/

user/pw: arbor/z1BhLDtrGYTzZW

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------
 
