Arbor Team Meeting 2021 08 31
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie or https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: NA, BH, AK, TH, BC, SY, LK

Model Verification
==================
- Same process as always, this time with 5 models from Robin: Purkinje, Golgi, Stellate, Basket, Granule. 
- Each model has a complex morphology and dynamics, and is being verified against NEURON. 
- This process is followed more or less:
    1. Simplify the morphology to a single soma. 
    2. Add mechanisms on the soma one by one, verifying after each one.
    3. Add a simple dendrite to the soma. Verify that it's the same interpretation as NEURON. 
    4. Add mechanisms on the dendrite one by one, verifying after each one. 
    5. Add a simple axon to the soma. Verify that it's the same interpretation as NEURON. 
    6. Add mechanisms on the axon one by one, verifying after each one. 
    7. Add the full morphology back. Add the full mechanisms one by one, verifying after each one. 
- When verification fails: 
    - If Arbor generates NaN, 99% of the time, there's something wrong with the mechanism code, probably an uninitialized variable, or `celsius` is not a `PARAMETER`.
    - If Arbor gives results but they don't match NEURON's results, check the ion interactions in NMODL. Mechanisms **do** interact with one another via ions so don't always think of them as isolated. Also, check that the reversal potentials match in arbor and NEURON, just add a `printf` in the nmodl code. Arbor interprets nmodl code slightly differently from NEURON, if something goes wrong, you can probably find some help here: https://docs.arbor-sim.org/en/latest/fileformat/nmodl.html
    - Check the discretization: Sometimes just using finer-grained discretization will help. Sometimes it's more complex because of the following:  NEURON discretizes along *sections* and also paints mechanisms on *sections*. Arbor's region thingification and discretization process are disjopint, so if the discretization is coarse and we don't pay attention, we can have a single CV in Arbor belong to more than 1 region and that can cause different results from NEURON. NEURON, by design, does not allow this. It's probably safe practice to do the following: 
    ```
    reg0_policy = arbor.cv_policy_xxx(..., '"reg0"')
    reg1_policy = arbor.cv_policy_xxx(..., '"reg1"')
    ...
    regn_policy = arbor.cv_policy_xxx(..., '"regn"')
    dflt_policy = arbor.cv_policy_xxx(...)
    policy = dflt_policy | regn_policy | ... | reg1_policy | reg0_policy
    decor.discretization(policy)
    ```
- Problems encountered this time: 
    - Bugs in Robin's packages: mechanisms were silently being skipped for Arbor. 
    - `load_swc_neuron` is out of date. 
    - NEURON's ASCII loader may be buggy. 
      ```
      Cell.soma[0]: 
        L = 8.708186400908108 
        diam = 4.666597612931984 
        area = 149.7143622378714 # area is L*diam*pi = 127.66, none of these match Arbor
      ```
    - NEURON's nernst rules. 
    - nmodl problems, the usual.


# NML Support

- Formulated a concrete proposal, will start work soon-ish.
- Put off networks for now, need to think about Arbor networks first
- Please comment here https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1621

# GUI

- Now part of arbor-sim
- Waiting for Arbor 0.6 :winkwink: :nudge:
- packaging complete
  - [BH] AppImage for Linux
  - DMG for MacOS
- [BH] nightly releases
- a more Arbor-y colour theme
- fancy 3D widgets
- lots of small enhancements
- writing a wiki article on how to re-create tutorial 1 in GUI
- TODO
    - Github nightlies are not generating on arbor-sim/gui, why? [BH]
        - Solved: one must enable Actions on repos manually.
    - Update shortcuts and images. Will draft from the tutorial.
    - AppImage icon missing? [BH]

# Dev Docs

- Wrote first draft for the intro based on the introduction for LK.
  - Just cable cells.
  - Missing graphics for now.
  - I hate ReST.
- This will be a large chunk of work, so it will come it in parts.
  - The draft already has the outgoing links, but they point to nothing.
  - Will make a PR for this first part.

# L2L

- Have a working setup that re-produces the (optimal) input
- Now, step-by-step generalisation

# Random Arblang question [SY]

- Should we include annotations (e.g. author metadata) in the language itself?
    - [BC] I am a bit doubtful that it will be used by scientists.
    - [SY] I'm hoping that encouraging citability and (useful) references from within a mechanism might encourage better attribution, but this hope could be a vain one.

# Github Team

* Now: we have an org, which has two tiers of user (member, admin/owner). Members can't make new repo's.
* A "team" is something you can add permissions for, which is better than setting individual permissions
* -> Simplify managing permissions
* Engage!

Partners
========

## Arborio AMPA and NMDA mechanisms

Deconvolution not too bad ***except*** there is a term corresponding to glutamate diffusion that is modelled oddly: the diffusion rate is time-dependent, with the consequence that the glutamate corresponding to each spike 'remembers' when the spike was, and needs to be accounted for correctly.

My [SY] suspicion is that the formula used to model this diffusion stems from a physical model that is more amenable to modelling. There are other bits to the term too, including a (removable) singularity at the spike time. Status: Robin has emailed Stefano Masoli and Egidio D'Angelo regarding the issue, and hopefully we can have a chat soon about it.


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* QEMU: it runs! Arbor compile takes ~ 8hrs though.
* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------
