Arbor Team Meeting 2021 11 23
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

SIMD library
============
- Anton has some suggestions: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1772. 
- Basically, replace what we have for neon/avx/avx2/avx512 with std::experimental. 
    - [NA] was okay with the idea, but found out it is only fully tested and supported using gcc 11 https://github.com/VcDevel/std-simd.
    - [NA] the rest of the refactoring does make sense. Maybe we can ask Anton to lay down the groundwork for using `std::experimental::simd` sometime in the future. 

- [TH] See Vector Classes, which is the basis for `std::simd`:
  https://github.com/VcDevel
  
- [BH] Attempt to track version: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/wiki/Testing-and-version-management

Dev meeting tomorrow
====================

- Attendance? [BH] [NA] [TH| Have to leave a bit early], Brent will be there to moderate
    - [x] BH sends list of Arborians to AK
- Agenda/working document (thanks Anne): https://demo.hedgedoc.org/EWHfSffPQuWI-n3jwmDLYg?view
- Attendees: Brent will send mail addresses to AK to invite and remind ArborIO and Fippa people
- [AK] 4 v0.7 tagged issues are in backlog, 7 are in next release; where shall we move them for discussion?
    - I will put them in next release, so we only need to look at next release, and in progress/review
    - I will update the table in https://demo.hedgedoc.org/EWHfSffPQuWI-n3jwmDLYg?view to mirror the Kanban board

Domain Decomposition for uni-directional gap-junctions
======================================================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1774

Extra logic and MPI communication added to partition cells into required groups. 

# Axial Diffusion

- got some fixes in, sane things are happening
- looks a bit ugly though
- _however_ `Xi` gets reset -- by design -- every step
- how to deal with that?

# NML2

- Got a rough draft of NMODL output
  - not yet compiling through modcc, but the way forward is clear
  - I wonder how aggressive we can be eliminating `PARAMETER`s
- I wish NML2 had more structure
- Also, asking questions on GH led to NML devs to learn new things :seenoevil:

# Waveform Relaxation

- new-style GJ are a complication
- we need to replace `v[cv_idx] - v[peer_idx]` with `v[cv_idx] -  v_trace[t][gj_idx]`
- another ABI change then

Partners
========

* Robin is in Zurich for the week. We will be working on verifying the results of single mechanisms, single cell models, and network; as well as optimizing the performance; and planning out the kinds of simulations/results we want in the paper.
* Plan was for Brent to participate in the writing of the paper. Do we know when Brent will be back?
* Paper deadline is December 31. [NA]: on vacation starting December 23. Not planning on participating in the actual writing of the paper. 


Other Issues & PRs
==================
* [AK] HLST internal report needs division into "activity" and "outcome". I will write a draft as soon as possible and share the link for you to check. 
* [AK] team training justification sent to Boris for feedback; needs another round; received two offers from FZJ external coach
* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

Personell / ArborIO
===================
BH will be back next Tuesday, 30th Nov. Thus, he will miss the ArborIO checkin. Who can take the lead there?
NA will.

* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Project%3A+Arborio%22
* Their 

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------
