Arbor Team Meeting 2021 03 08
=============================

Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: Brent (BH), Thorsten (TH), Nora (NA), Ben (BC), and.... Sam (SY)!

Neuron and Allen SWC formats
============================
BC wants to propose removing the Allen SWC reader
* Refactor the NEURON reader to follow new NEURON rules
* Allen == SONATA == whatever NEURON does with single sample somas
    - The other rules (e.g. all samples on a section must be contiguous) are arbitrary and unenforced.

https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1445

BC is also convinced that he can write a mapper from NEURON sections to Arbor branches and locations
* For the sections automatically generated when SWC/ASC files are read.
* Not for arbitrary sections defined when a user builds a cell in hoc/python.

Arbor Cable-Cell Format (ACC)
=============================
* Pending review, all comments have been addressed.
* Initial version is `0.1-dev`

Synapse Identification
======================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1394

NA plans to start working on this soon, some details about the proposed implementation are in the issue.

Bluepyopt (if time permits)
===========================
For context: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1221

* Quite deeply integrated with neuron, what are the steps to get arbor support?
* BC: they apparently have a more generic interface for the back end (though the front-end model description is likely very NEURONic)

Pyarb simulations (if time permits)
===================================

* Soon our partners will start running larger simulations, what needs to be done to improve the performance there.
    * The issue will be in model initialisation.
* This is somehow related to https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1221, but should have its own issue.

Autodoc for Python API (update)
===============================

* BH: It's many-layered. https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1172
* The specific challenge is generating type information about properties, arguments, etc. as a type 'option', rather than an ugly label.

Partners
========

* Kirsten: interested in shaping up the Openworm example and publishing it in arbor-contrib and submission to model db.
* NA: NeuroML hackathon: Helped Padraig verify a an Arbor model against Neuron; Brought up documentation; Tried to bring up translation from NeuroML -> nmodl: there wasn't a lot of enthusiasm there.
* NA: Haven't had contact with Robin in a while, I'd like to believe everything is going well with the model, but I have some doubts.
    * BC: to quote Robin `for sure, as soon as I finally get the cerebellar cortex paper finished I should be able to finally spend some time on the tool again, and then Arbor & SONATA are high on the menu`
* SY: feature work for LFPy support is close to finished
    *  also want to work on a multithreaded sampling example

ABI
===

* TH: getting close to completion.
* TH: will seek feedback before finishing the docs.
* TH: we lost `mechanism_info`... SY: we might want to find that again.
  * Don't worry it's fine. `mech_info cuddles = get_mech_info(const arb_mechanism_type&)`

Sampling metadata
=================

* SY: Proposing extra info for: data syntax/layout; time ordering guarantee (or lack thereof); instruction that all samples have been provided up to a certain time boundary; some way of informing callbacks that the sim has been reset, or a `run()` call has completed, or that the simulation is completely done.

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

* Consensus yes on removing Allen-specific SWC reader. SY: Maybe we don't need to constrain the NEURON reader for a fixed tag set?

Next time
---------
