Arbor Team Meeting 2021 12 01
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: BH, TH, NA, BC, FB, AK

# Welcome back Brent, welcome Fabian

# `build-catalogue`
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1784
- Need a hand with HIP/CUDA-clang, have no system to test.
  Also no experience
- Also: see below.

# Build System Woes

- Pre-existing discussion
    - https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1683
    - https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1695
- Concerning the whole `build-catalogue` issue complex
- Using setup.py has been proving more and more brittle
  - using a hand-rolled cmake builder
      - [BH] Which is not very well documented, but also not necesarily a problem; see https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1695#issuecomment-938538601
  - cannot install into proper python-paths/venvs
      - [BH] Wut? It can!
  - also, how to bundle binaries/tools/headers with pip?
      - [BH] As data. However, what's the nature of the ~~medical emergency~~ request?
  - We can discuss this (better?) offline.
    But here's the core issue: arbor-build-catalogue needs arbor.cmake and some other scripts (the latter we _could_ embed, but so painful), so it is build by CMake `configure_file`, which here needs `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`.
- This leads to Python installs being 2nd class, which is
  dissonant to what users seem to expect (see issues)
      - [BH] Providing binaries/tools/headers is possible. The question is, is this the best way to provide them? Which things do we need to provide?
          - arbor.cmake
          - two cmake scripts 
          - arbor headers
          - libarbor.a
              - [BH] Seems like only `arbor-build-catalogue` (and whatever it needs) would make sense to include with pip distributions. What do you think?
              - [TH] No. `a-b-c` does nothing w/o libarbor.a and Co.
- **Also** CMake. Nuff said.
- So, here's my suggestion: We should rethink our installation
  process as it is not appropriate, does not scale to what we 
  want to be doing, and also is painful to maintain.
  Options
  - scikit-build 
    - replaces `setuptools`
    - uses CMake natively
        - [BH] Using setuptools.build_meta:legacy to run CMake is very commonly used in other projects as well.
    - no prior experience
      - update: it's nice, 
        - added a oneline file
        - removed most of setup.py
        - got full install
        - need to fix some paths (issue/question @ scikit-build)
          https://github.com/scikit-build/scikit-build/issues/613
          - worst case: can fake it using the `SKBUILD` flag
        - ~~need to re-enable wheels~~ No need to, `python setup.py bdist_wheel` is good enough
            - [BH] `python setup.py bdist_wheel` running isn't enough, must run on the PyPA docker images which have a specific setup.
            - [TH] Can I run it in CI? 
    - should take away the impedance mismatch in our `setup.py`
    - hopefully plays nice w/ venv and the like
  - meson
    - replaces CMake, we can worry about the rest later
    - some prior art by Ben, looks really nice
    - re-write from scratch could help to iron out some kinks 
      that stem from scope creep, eg dynamic catalogues.
    - [BC] will keep us updated, using his branch 
      - Issue #53

# L2L

- almost no progress
- [NA] Arborio want this. Kinda promised to prio this.
- BluePyOpt instead?
- [TH] will contact BluePyOpt people.
- [TH] make issue

# NML2

- Much fun was had, NMODL output works now
  - Simple, conductance based ion channels
  - Likewise for synapses 
  - Everything is in `LOCAL`s, might be good, might be bad
  - Low-level optimisations were missed, but currently don't care
- Looks sane, but that doesn't say much
  - Certainly need to add `RANGE` to some `PARAMETER`s
- Need more examples, asked Lennart
- Code needs more organisation and polish.
- take care of license

Partners
========

* Cosim
    * TH update?
      [TH] Radio silence since ~2w, just poked Wouter again
    * Wouter requests design session: https://github.com/multiscale-cosim/EBRAINS-cosim/issues/15
* Recap: Developer meeting (v0.6 summary)
    - Detailed minutes here: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-materials/blob/master/minutes/devmeets/20211124.md
    - We agreed on the following **vision/goals** for the next release v0.6 in January 2022: 
        - include features supporting USERS such as 
            - arbor-gui, 
            - mechanism ABI, 
            - user-defined gap junction mechanisms, 
            - querying CV cables of a cable-cell, 
            - NeuroML coverage, 
            - more sophisticated domain decomposition, and
            - uni-directional gap junctions
        - include features supporting DEVELOPERS such as 
            - profiling, and 
            - onboarding new developers
    - Collection of v0.6 issues:

| Issue #     | Description | Status       | Comments/Questions     | Agreement |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | -----------|
| [1722](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1722) | Solver 'sparse': error for constant value in ODE | in review | FIPPA; linked to [PR1755](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1755) | v0.6 |
| [PR1748](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1748)| Test separately built catalogues | in review | | v0.6
| []() |  |  |  |  |
| [1720](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1720) | Allow user to query the CV cables of a cable-cell | in progress | linked to [PR1758](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1758); not yet sure if it will be merged, [NA] will fight for it | v0.6 |
| [1621](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1621) | [NML2] Extend NeuroML Coverage | in progress | TODO: [LL+TH] get in contact for detailed discussion | v0.6 |
| []() |  |  |  |  |
| [1692](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1692) | Defaults: creating a context saturating local cpu | next release | linked [PR1716](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1716); needs updating (solve arbenv issue); Related [PR1725](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1725), recently merged| v0.6 |
| [1437](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1437) | Onboarding new developers: A guided tour of Arbor | next release | TODO: [BH] move checklist from PR to issue (and update), request [ME+LL] for review of PR when marked ready | Merge [PR1639](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1639) in v0.6 |
| []() |  |  |  |  |
| [1764](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1764) | Arbor-compatible NMODL representation of AMPA, NMDA, and GABA synapses | backlog | SY's [notes](https://demo.hedgedoc.org/HNQ4vBLlRDWWbC29BgYGMQ); feedback needed from ArborIO --> TODO: [NA] will contact Stefano Masoli; Robin Gilbert asked for it | no version (yet) |
| [969](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/969)| More sophisticated domain decomposition | backlog | ArborIO; no need to implement the suggested solution, a more sophisticated method for partitioning cells across nodes, or at least make it possible to have a user-defined partitioning using the python interface, second step more complex | (v0.6-)v0.7 |
| [1709](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1709) | Receive spikes on electrical gap junctions | backlog | ArborIO; more info needed to review feasibility: [LL] refers to paper in issue; [NA] keep synapse and GJ mechs and combine with fake ion; [LL] no high prio; TODO: [NA+LL] meet for details on paper in Dec2021 | top of backlog, w/o tag|
|     *minor issues/bugs*    |
| [1767](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1767) | Uni-directional gap junctions | in review | linked to [PR1774](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1774) | v0.6 |
| [1752](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1752) | Bad Any Cast Error in C++ examples | next release | issues on Mac M1 linked to hidden visibility | v0.6 |
* [NA] ArborIO check-in (Full minutes here: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/G9VMgtemTjiPn5TOl7vIeA)
    * We discovered during the Arborio check-in meeting today (and mainly thanks to @halfflat) that our understanding of the AMPA/NMDA/GABA synapses has been too simplistic. Supporting these synapses is going to require some changes to be made to Arbor. I had a meeting with Sam (after the check-in) where we discussed the solution he proposed above. But he thinks, and I agree, that we need more eyes on the issue since he'll only be able to contribute to Arbor part-time. 
       * [TH] I'll happily join, also please add to the call w/ ArborIO
       * [AK, FB] add us as well
    * Here are the papers and the nmodl file (recommended by Sam) that described the physical model and the implementation:
        - https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16207782/
        - https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12165473/ (particularly figure 3E)
        - https://senselab.med.yale.edu/ModelDB/ShowModel?model=128446&file=%2fShortTermPlasticityMFGRC_Nieus2006%2fAmpa.mod#tabs-2
    - There were other papers listed during the meeting which can be found here: 
        - https://demo.hedgedoc.org/G9VMgtemTjiPn5TOl7vIeA?view
    - These synapses are an important part of the model, and are going to be needed very soon, so I thin we need to focus on understanding the issue and coming up with a solution.
    - Other than that, the check-in meeting went very well. Everyone seemed happy with the collaboration and thanked us for our hard work. We didn't get any complaints.
    - [AK] ask for slides from Robin and Lennart
    - [NA] get back to Egidio regarding `zero_delay`
- [AK] Microsoft Azure
    - Thomas Lippert agrees with Boris to weigh carefully between the gain in knowledge that we can potentially draw from the cooperation and the risk of a bad external effect (against the background discussed that we actually want the Fenix infrastructure to be used within the framework of EBRAINS, non-commercial cloud providers). 
    - Accordingly, Boris would be in agreement with further joint activities as long as they are limited to scientific-technical issues (requirements analysis, porting, benchmarking, optimization, etc.). 
    - These should not take place under the HBP or EBRAINS flag, but rather under the SimLab flag. 
    - He does not want Microsoft to do any promotion or marketing activities related to the collaboration.
    - [AK] on low prio: get together with BH, TH to discuss, then get back to MS Azure

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* Credit card for Oracle Cloud (free ARM Ampere)
* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

