Arbor Team Meeting 2021 04 27
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie
Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: TH, NA, SY, BC

Synapse Identification
======================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1394
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1488

- PR is almost ready
- PR will touch a lot of files (>100)
- Issue 1488 was supposed to be addressed before 1394, but I've worked around it until Ben can give an opinion.

PRs
===

## Docs markup
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1483

NA started reviewing this, but is unsure of the effect of the CSS file changes, particulary as they relate to the rest of the changes in the PR.

TH: I do not know CSS for 5c, so I'll wont say anything to this

Deferred until Brent is back.

## Code of Conduct
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1476

Is there anything stopping this from being merged?

NA has requested changes that are still (?) open.

Deferred until Brent is back.


Partners
========

* JSC Master project on distributed Gap Junctions (topic suggested by Thorsten):
  * Workplan
    * Implement Waveform Relaxation locally
    * Explore the quality of the approximation over iteration count
    * Derive some lower bound for the iteration count
    * Estimate feasibility in the distributed case from that.
    * Optionally:
      - Optimisation
      - investigate compression of the payload via Fourier or Wavelets
      - More sophisticated Performance Model
      - ...
  * Timeframe: Next semester (Oct-Apr), potentially starting early
  * Max and @Arborio welcome this to explore


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

Next time
---------

