Arbor Team Meeting 2021 07 20
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie or https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

Gap Junctions
=============
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1600

### NMODL interface: 
- The current update function is explicitly stated in the mechanism. We would need to expose a new magic variable `delta_v`, only available to `GJ_PROCESS` mechanisms. 
- This allows us to use the `delta_v` in an ODE description. Is this needed?
```
NEURON {
    GJ_PROCESS ode_gj
    NONSPECIFIC_CURRENT i
}
STATE { g }
INITIAL { g = 0 (nS) }
BREAKPOINT {
    SOLVE state method cnexp
    i = g*(delta_v)
}
DERIVATIVE state {
   g' = : some function of delta_v 
}
```
OR 
```
NEURON {
    GJ_PROCESS linear_gj
    NONSPECIFIC_CURRENT i
    RANGE g
}
ASSIGNED { g }
INITIAL { g = 0 (nS) }
BREAKPOINT {
    g = foo(v - vgap, g)
    i = g*(v - vgap)
}
FUNCTION foo(delta_v, g) {
   foo = : some function of delta_v and g
}
```

- Note: Originally I intended to implement GJ mechanisms as updates to the conductance governed by a new call-back function `CONDUCTANCE_UPDATE` (similar to `NET_RECEIVE` in point mechanisms) which takes `delta_v` as an argument. However, the syntax for defining the current update requires a `delta_v` to be available in the `BREAKPOINT` block; or otherwise some NMODL-compatible way of implicitly defining the current contribution in terms of a state variable but not in terms of `delta_v`. Exposing a new "magic" `delta_v` variable is the simplest way to describe the functionality. 

### Implementation
#### Option 1
- `gj_vector` in the shared state, saves the CV-pairs of gap junction connections, for example: 
```
idx     0      1       2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9   
gj_pair 0,10   2,5     2,6    5,2    5,8    6,2    8,5    9,10   10,0   10,9
```
- `delta_v_vector` in the shared state, exposed to the mechanism ABI, stores the difference in the voltage of the CVs, updated after the `matrix_solve` step. 
```
idx     0       1      2      3      4      5      6      7       8       9   
delta_v v0-v10  v2-v5  v2-v6  v5-v2  v5-v8  v6-v2  v8-v5  v9-v10  v10-v0  v10-v9
```
- `delta_v_index` in the mechanism ABI, stores the index to `delta_v` per CV. Assuming all GJ have the same type here: 
```
idx           0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7     8     9   
node_index    0    2    2    5    5    6    8    9    10    10
delta_v_index 0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7     8     9
```
- Possible optimizations: 
    - `gj_vector` can contain repetitions. Keep only unique elements after `delta_v_index` is constructed. This will also shrink the size of `delta_v_vector`. 
    - shrink `gj_vector` and `delta_v_vector` by half: `gj_pair` (0, 2) and (2, 0) have the same `delta_v` with different signs. This will need some extra logic to choose the right sign in the current update on both sides of the gap_junction. Might not be worth the effort.
- Requires: 
    - new `delta_v_vector` with size equal to size of `gj_vector` * sizeof(double)
    - multiple new `delta_v_index`  with total size equal to total number of gap junctions in the network * sizeof(unsigned).

#### Option 2
- `peer_index` in the mechanism ABI, stores the index of the peer CV of the GJ. The delta of the voltage is calculated in the current update function. Assuming all GJs have the same type here:
```
idx        0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7     8     9   
node_index 0    2    2    5    5    6    8    9    10    10
peer_index 10   5    6    2    8    1    5    10    0     9
```
- This method requires one more memory access than option 1 (2 voltage reads instead of just reading delta_v). Also, if there are many gap-junctions on the same CV, this method could result in non-efficient memory accesses.
- `gj_vector` no longer needed.
- Requires multiple new `peer_index`  with total size equal to total number of gap junctions in the network * sizeof(unsigned).


Partners
========

* Meeting with Max and Lennart today at 14:00 to discuss their approach for implementing gap junctions.


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

