Arbor Team Meeting 2021 03 08
=============================

Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

Item 1
======



Item 2
======



Partners
========

* Kirsten: interested in shaping up the example and publishing it in arbor-contrib and submission to model db.
* (text-only updates preferable)


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

