Arbor Team Meeting 2021 10 12
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: BH, TH, NA, AK

Arbor Communication
===================

* [BH] We don't use the Kanban. Let's use Milestones (as Arbor releases). You can easily assign them to Issues, and easily get an overview of the Issues open/closed for a particular Milestone/Release.
    * Kanban: we stopped using it. Do this again. Let's look at it every meet, and work off that.
        * Who makes sure we're working on Issues in the In progress or Next Rel column.
        * When we add agenda items, please add the Github Issue number.
        * AK and BH have short disc on who does what.
            * Use team meet before dev meet to prep.
            * Use kanban as communication tool
    * Regular releases?
        * Say every 3 months
    * Open Dev meet?
        * Use Kanban as input for this meet.
        * Have a dev meet a month before every release?
        * Feature X takes Y time.
            * time budgetting: what's the budget for 'core arbor' work?
            * BC: giving them visibility on this is not good, but also not leaving them on the ground floor.
        * Porting work: is that _our_ work?
* [BH] I discovered repo members couldn't add labels to Issues. I added our Arborio friends as members and bumped the privs of all collaborators to "Triage" which means they can "manage" Issues and PRs. I've verified they can't merge PRs :) They also have a project label.
* [BH] Had call with Max/Lennart/Elias. They've created some issues.
    * Request: follow up on these ASAP:
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Project%3A+Fippa%22
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Project%3A+Arborio%22

* [AK]: Scrum Master efforts (light version)
    * Opinions on (me starting as) a Scrum Master (light) in order to improve synergies; introducing daily stand-ups again, introducing (e.g. bi-weekly) retrospectives to discuss improvements/impediments, make sure Kanban board is used (discuss issues when necessary/wanted to be discussed)
    * Agreed to moderate team meetings
    * Looking for (team) training options on planning/conducting meetings within the team at FZJ


Idea for Event/workshop
=======================

Nora: nmodl optimization course, not only interesting for Arborio-peeps, Neuron users as well.

[TH] Nice idea!

-> first document [NA], then make presentation[BH: happy to help!], then maybe workshop.

# NML

- Slow progress again, got a working parser
- Starting building Arbor mechanisms
- Short (5min) talk at COMBINE'21 tomorrow.

# L2L

- Prototype multi-instance SC optimizer
- Waiting for L2L's part

Partners
========

* [AK] Microsoft Azure:
    * Currently on hold, since Boris wants to check with Thomas Lippert regarding IP, legal questions and political concerns within HBP
    * Suggested hackathon on performance benchmarking on Azure cloud (not heard back from MS)
* [NA] Robin's model:
    * Looks like there's an issue in the generated vectorized code that is causing a segmentation fault on piz daint. Couldn't recreate it locally. Will debug next week. 
    * We have a profile of the performance of the network. A lot of time is spent (~60%) in heavy mechanisms (3 different variants of cdp5). The cdp5 mechanisms contain non-linear kinetic schemes which are solved with Newton's method and include an unrolled for loop and many temporary variables. Maybe we will need to optimize that code? But first, we should check that we aren't overusing those mechanisms (placing them on 100 CVs vs. 10 on Neuron). 
        * Even if we optimize the cdp5 to the point where they take zero time, we would only get 2.5x speed-up. Robin was suggesting that Arbor is 10x slower than Neuron. Something else is up.
    * Next steps also include running on GPU. 
    * [TH] GPU is excellent, but the remaining gap must be addressed as well
      * Possibly KINETIC needs some more work?

# WR

* [LK] has a working version of heat conductance over coupled rods including WR. Next, we tackle Arbor
  * [TH] Test cases: 
    * Two simple HH-ball-n-stick cells with gap junctions: PoC
    * Ring of three: Vary distance to study effects of multiple GJ on convergence
    * Larger nets, random connectivity
    * Q: other suggestions?

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* end of month: new CSCS team member.
* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

