Arbor Team Meeting 01.02.2021
=============================

General
-------

**Kanban board** 
 - We need to go over the backlog soon, sort the issues already in the queue and add the missing ones. Once the board is in a good state, that can be our main window into the project and it'll be useful for discussing tickets in the meeting. 
 - We should decide whether all issues need to go in the backlog, or whether an issue needs to be approved for implementation before it is added to the backlog. Can this process be automated?  


Tickets
-------

Mechanism ABI / Dynamic Catalogues
----------------------------------
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1335
- Discussion on ABI format
- Work split into 2 steps: (Likely to go into seperate PRs)
  1. Clean up/unify Arbor GPU and multicore interfaces.  
     - Unify table fields `iarray*` -> `index_type**`
     - Remove `nrn_` prefix.
     - Rename some functions.
     - etc.
  2. Create C-interface betwen NMODL and Arbor/
     - Consider: Have separate interfaces for 1st/2nd order integration; and standard/reproducible reductions either by:
       1. Namespacing methods by suffix `..._2nd_order` etc
       2. Setting up multiple interfaces in a plugin enriched w/ metadata
 
Cable cell file formats
-----------------------
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1336
- Clarify purpose of the file descriptions
- Requirements
  - Round-trippable
  - Easy to refer to other modules. (For example morphologies defined elsewhere).
  - Human readable (to an extent - simple things like a label dictionary should be easy to understand; but not morphologies)
  - Easy to generate. 
  - Concern: are s-expressions common in the Neurosciene world? Likely yes, Neurolucida exists. 
- What description format to use
  - NeuroML: Doesn't map one-to-one with Arbor. Round-tripping wouldn't be easy.
  - JSON as per extension of https://github.com/bcumming/cnrn-arb-cell: Not a popular option. It's easy to read, but we'll end up including s-expressions as strings, might be better to just use s-expressions. 
  - S-Exp - **Most likely candidate as of now**
  - XML - Not a popular option. Not very readable. 
  - YAML
  - There's also TOML - Not discussed. 
  - If we would like a binary format, how about sqlite? - Not discussed. 

PRs
===

https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1287
- Travis CI failures on MacOS and Ubuntu
  - `Error while loading dynamic catalogue '/home/travis/build/arbor-sim/arbor/build-cthread-linux-gcc-py/lib/dummy-catalogue.so': cannot find catalogue"` 
  - Tests work locally on MacOS, Ubuntu 20.04, Ubuntu 18.04 
  - ...and on GH CI.
- Are they worth debugging? 
  - Yes, might point to a bug. But perhaps the debugging efforts should be time-boxed as we are planning to deprecate Travis CI soon. 
  - Before Travis CI is removed we need to have more comprehensive GH action tests. **We should open a ticket.**
- Ideas/Suggestiong for debugging:
  - Is `dlopen` allowed on Travis
  - Check used paths.
  - Replicate Travis environment to speed up debugging. Use a docker image/ Chef cookbook. 
  - Use tracing macros.


https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1312 
- To be closed. We need more concrete plans for an Arbor format before commiting to JSON.

Partners
========

ArborIO
-------

Kickoff meeting with Arborio partners is scheduled for: *Tuesday Feb 9 @ 16:00*

Ben will send an invitation. 

**Format**: 90 minutes with a 5-10 minute break in the middle

**Agenda**:
- 10 minutes: brief introductions.
- 30 minutes: team Arbor presents Arbor.
  - 10min slides + 20min QA
  - List of requirements from Wiki
  - Distributed GJ
- 10 minutes: BREAK
- 30 minutes: Discussion of ArborIO project's needs.
- 10 minutes: Concrete plan next steps.

Misc
----

- Where do we store meeting minutes? Possible https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-materials/minutes? 
- OpenWorm meeting Feb 1 @ 3pm - also includes NeuroML discussion.

Next time
---------

- CoSim
- FIPPA Meeting?