Arbor Team Meeting 22.02.2021
=============================

Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>

Presence
--------

TH, BC, NA, SY, BH

Issues
------

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3

PRs
---

* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

Assignment projects/coops (10 min)
==================================

* Who does what?
    * Ben talks with Christian?
        * Brent & Sam should.
    * Nora FIPPA?
        * Nora is discussing building bootstrap models with ArborIO
    * Sam?
        * Sam is talking to ArborIO "implementors"
    * TODO: Let's use https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/2
        * Aditionally we could have static page describing status/who/what of each project.
* We should use a shared calender for these things. No ifs or buts.
    * Need to be able to see appointments on work accounts: no ifs, no buts.

Outcome:
    * a meeting with FIPPA (Sebastian & optionally Cristian) would be good (Nora&Sam)
        * status update and roadmap.
        * could do at the same time as they give us an update on their CRC funding.

Partners
========

* BBP
    * Quick discussion of meeting this afternoon
* Arborio
    * Updates?
* FIPPA
    * Updates?

Discussion
==========

* Draft PRs — reschedule for next meeting.
* Outline work pending next meeting with Padraig — reschedule for next meeting, or discuss in channel.

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

* FIPPA status update?
    * a meeting with FIPPA (Sebastian & optionally Cristian) would be good (Nora&Sam)
        * status update a roadmap.
        * they'll come to us after they learn if grant was accepted this wednesday
* Arborio
    * 'regular' status meet?
    * Sam: to look into the maths behind the state-hoarding synapse models (Robin); must make a card at least on the collab board.

Next time
---------

