Arbor Team Meeting 2021 08 24
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie or https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: NA, BC, BH, TH, LK, SY

Funding through "The German Node of Ebrains"
============================================

BH is writing a blurb on Arbor for "The German National Node of EBrains", which is a construct to find funding for all German contributors to EBrains. This blurb will be read in a few months time and may be a funding opportunity.

* mention Arborio? (might be cut, at this stage not sure if non-German coop must be mentioned.)
    * FIPPA is the more "german" of the projects
    * Ask Christian for a FIPPA line
* I mention the LFPy, can/should more be said of LFPy?
    * Ask Espen or HEP.

Slackxit
========

* Without further ado, gitter.im?
* Matrix access limited: https://gitlab.com/gitterHQ/webapp/-/issues/2785#note_603808406
* For collaborators: Pin message to every channel, send an email. Update docs/github readme/website/etc.

Gap juntions
============
1. Making gap junctions placeable mechanisms is going to result in code similar to: 
```
decor.place(arb::mlocation{0, 0.5}, "expsyn", "syn");
decor.place(arb::mlocation{1, 0.5}, "linear_gj", "gj");
```
- This creates some ambiguity when creating the cable cell, as the cell itself won't have access to a mechanism catalogue and therefore won't know in the placed mechanism is a gj mechanism or a point mechanism. 
- The resolution of this can be pushed into the `fvm_lowered_cell_impl` classes which will require more changes than anticipated; or we can make the distinction while placing the mechanisms. For example: 
```
decor.place(arb::mlocation{0, 0.5}, arb::synapse_mech{"expsyn"}, "syn");
decor.place(arb::mlocation{1, 0.5}, arb::gap_junction_mech{"linear_gj"}, "gj");
```

2. Linear gap-junctions will no longer be built-in to `fvm_lowered_cell_impl`. In the first part of this implementation, gap-junctions support will not be added to nmodl and modcc. So if we want to support linear gap_junctions as before, it will have to be via a built-in mechanism. Or we could just wait until the second part of this implementation where we add modcc support and a linear gap junction nmodl implementation.

Python Recipes
==============

We are getting some feedback from Robin that implementing recipes in Python has a few code smells (e.g. `recipe.__init__` requirement).
BH created an issue to discuss ways to make the current recipe implementation in Python feel more like a Python abstract base class.
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1634
BC wonders if we might want to consider a more pythonic approach to describing recipes (and maybe think about the C++ descriptions)

Partners
========

* [NA] Robin is back to working on Arborio. He's having trouble, as usual, verifying the models with Neuron. We tried to do this together but it was slow progress. I will need to do some part of it myself, then explain the process to Robin.  

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

 
