# Arbor Team Meeting 2021 11 09

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: NA, TH, AK, LK

## Reminders

1. Please add HLST efforts **until 12th Nov** in https://demo.hedgedoc.org/oHtPfWCtRfqyvV-o4pZL2A?both
- Regarding PMs: Idea is to add additional PMs as internal contributions
- NA: ask Sam
2. Please go over our Kanban board's columns "Next release" and "In Progress" (https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3) and add your planned issues for the next release v0.6 until noon tomorrow. We can also already tag v0.7 as preparation (and/or if time is an impediment). 
*Definitions: 'Next release' will be issues planned for the next release v0.6 and 'in progress' is everything that is worked on at the moment (but not neccessarily for v0.6, thus the additional tag v0.6).*
In https://demo.hedgedoc.org/EWHfSffPQuWI-n3jwmDLYg?edit I started collecting the issues from our Kanban board in a table to go through (sorted by in review, in progress, next release). **Please add comments/questions if there are any.**

## Training on meetings

[BH] and [AK] are waiting for offers from external coaches (BH from Dutch provider, AK from FZJ coach). Boris is trying to get funding from Horizon 2020 (SGA3 is not elegible since it only covers travel costs).

## Axial Diffusion

[TH] Out of the implemtation into the debugging phase.
* Documentation missing/to be updated. See `doc/math/model`.
* Have a call with a 'whiteboard' on updating this.

## GJ 
- [LK] PR coming up on gap junction python examples
- [LK] Bug report on C++ example of`any_cast`s

## Expose CV cables to users 
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1720

* Will require some refactoring of `fvm_layout.cpp`
*
    ```
    struct cv_proportion {
      fvm_size_type idx;
      fvm_value_type proportion; 
    };
    
    class cell_cv_data {
    public:
      // Returns mcables comprising the CV at a given index.
      mcable_list cables(fvm_size_type cv_index) const;

      // Returns the CV indices of the children of a given CV index.
      std::vector<fvm_index_type> children(fvm_size_type cv_index) const;

      // Returns the CV index of the parent of a given CV index.
      fvm_index_type parent(fvm_size_type cv_index) const;

      // Returns total number of CVs.
      fvm_size_type num_cv() const;
    }
    
    std::optional<cell_cv_data> cv_data(const cable_cell& cell);`
    std::vector<cv_proportion> intersect_region(const cable_cell& cell, 
                                                const region& reg, 
                                                const cell_cv_data& cvs)
    ```

## Partners

* MS Azure: no update from Boris/Thomas Lippert
* Lennart's GPU crash, do we have any info on that? 
  * Not really, we know it's a kernel launch error
* Random123
    * Was added before they created their github repo and we're a few versions behind. Do we update? Or add it as an external module as Max suggested a while ago?
    * Talk to Ben on how to handle header-only files
    * TH favors updating (read: more submodules)
    * NA be aware of HIP
* Max's CMake question: Seems fine but I think there may be a need for a special function. Maybe [TH] can take a look? 
* Lennart's requests for shared state variables between cells, and gap-junctions that can receive spikes. We need to schedule a meeting to get more info. Would be good if [BC] can attend. 
    * Suggestion: Arborio checkin 2 on 29th Nov
    * Ask for high level description and overall goals, refer to roadmap writeup
* Complex Synapses
    * Heard back from [SY], he will write up his notes soon. He's been working with AMPA and NMDA models. There's also GABA, but I think they're all similar
    > The chief problem is that the physical model of what is going on with the diffusion is unclear: it's comprised of a burst phase (a square wave pulse of neurotransmitter) and a diffusion phase, one per spike event (which add up over time). Are they modelling multiple pre-synaptic emission sites, or one? Why does it saturate the synaptic cleft in the burst phase? That is, why isn't it also governed by diffusion?
If the physical model can be pinned down, then we can make a discretized approximation to the diffusion PDE and we should then be good to go.
    * Once We have Sam's notes we can contact Stefano and get the answers to Sam's questions. 

Personell
---------
* Fabian (stochastic ODES)
* Anton 20% (SIMD library stand alone, tasking, user defined cell types)

## Other Issues & PRs

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

## End


## TODO and Decisions


## Next time

