Arbor Team Meeting
==================

2021-01-18 13:00

Attendees:
----------

Brent, Nora, Thorsten

Team Members Update (20 min)
----------------------------

Anne

Ben

-   Reportedly taking a break.

Brent

-   Docs-work: Termification, 2 examples

    -   Some PRs waiting for review

        -   Cable Cell cpp split out?

        -   Cable Cell top level concept?

        -   Cable Cell Probes/experimental pages?

-   Todo: Add Allen example.

Nora

-   Too much doc review. Others: please also review.

-   Need to merge STDP soon, hanging on Bens approval. Sams review would
    be nice too.

-   Have a look at Arbor-GUI

Sam

-   Sick

Thorsten

-   NSUITE: update for v0.5. Have nightly CI job?

-   

Partners Update (5 min)
-----------------------

---

Documentation (20 min)
----------------------

Nora, Thorsten, Brent in favor. Brush up docstrings. Nora: correct
apidoc should have prio.

Nora: not too much more refactoring, let's focus on completeness (API in
particular)

Next Meeting (3 min)
--------------------

Tasks
-----

Brent: Make sure we're all there for the retrospective tomorrow,
otherwise postpone

Thorsten: look into nsuite CI job, Nora.

Brent: start python autodoc branch, with online preview. Update
docstrings.

Nora takes look at arbor-gui.
