Arbor Team Meeting 2021 03 23
=============================

Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

Library-provided parameterized cell recipe
==========================================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1221

Yes, no, maybe?

Discussion:
* First step: look at BluePyOpt requirements. This can inform issue 1221.

Printers
========
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/952

Do only Python for now. Are all people who expressed agreement to the earlier proposal to unify C++ and Python printers on board?

* Discussion: Okay just Python for now.

Low priority structural features
================================

These do not all even have issues yet, but SY would like to start some progress on the following *low priority* features:
* Steering/C&C: Basic functionality for a request queue and associated notification/polling to be handled by a running simulation. Motivations/scope:
    * First implementation would be for a single request: graceful stop.
    * Use cases include: handling snapshot requests; early termination when in NAN-land; co-sim coordination.
    * Why now? To get ahead in the design so that we have a say when it comes to coordinating C&C development under the co-sim banner.
        * Q: do we have a timeline for co-sim stuff? We should know their planned milestones.
* Generic and user-visible cell group 'factory'.
    * Everything is currently hardcoded, but the structure would admit a general registry for cell kinds × back-end → cell group implementation mapping.
    * Why now? Making this user visible makes it less mysterious (observation from chatting with Max).
    * Also? ArborIO folk raising the prospect of directly generating C++ code to run specialized cell groups. SY is not convinced that this is a great idea for ArborIO, but the extensibility could well be useful nonetheless.

Any thoughts?

Discussion:
    * Let's have a dev chat re: C&C/Steering.
    * Let's ask Wouter about co-sim timelines.
    * Nora volunteers to look at the cell group fatory code, and then we can pin down requirements in an issue.

Idea: arbor-contrib org
=======================

Here we'll fork any arbor simulation we get hold of/find. Preserves link and relationship with upstream, but collects copies that will persist in central location.

* all can live with the proposal, Kirsten's project would be a fitting candidate.
* [BH] Ask Kirsten if she's OK with putting her Openworm demo here, if she's interested in cleaning it up a bit.

Correctness and complexity in NMODL density mechanisms and catalogues
=====================================================================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1226

**Summary:** Currently, it is possible to have non-linear parameters. If the same parameter is present with different values on the same CV, then the parameter value on the CV will be area weighted, which is mathematically incorrect for non-linear parameters. Also, the distinction between global and range parameters is vague.

Do we want to address this issue soon? Sam has suggested some alternative solutions.

Synapse renaming
================

Should we start implementation?
Answer: Yes. [SY] just a bit concerned that his own confidence in the proposal may be unwarranted: let's try it out and see.

Request for review
==================

* <s>modcc: `Expression::semantic` cleanup and segmentation fault fix:
    https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1450</s> PR#1450 now merged.
* <s>recipe: Check that `event_generator` uses valid targets (by comparing to `recipe::num_targets()`)
    https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1438</s> PR#1438 now merged. Question [SY]: should event generators as returned by recipes contain target gids at all?
        Answer [BH]: how else can you identify them?
        [SY]: Let's discuss!
* cable-cell format: PR has been aproved but is now outdated due to changes to `i_clamp`. In the meantime, I've added examples of s-expressions that will be supported once the PR has been merged, if there are any comments, now would be a good time to make them, because I would like to get this merged soon.
**Examples:** https://demo.hedgedoc.org/CuiYmTFhSeedHcETI2iwnA?both
**PR:** https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1423

Discussion: general conclusion re event generator GIDs: try to remove them. Also exists old issue re: this.

Spheres vs. Somas vs. SWC vs. NEURON
=====================================

Changes have been merged into NEURON in response to Nora's investigations into their SWC representations:
* https://github.com/neuronsimulator/nrn/blob/9b10897dbf9cced0b0f60c5664023c4f17205865/test/pynrn/test_swc.py
* I hand checked the test cases there, and they were sane.
* Ben volunteers to revisit the allen and neuron swc loaders to update them to match NEURON's behavior.

Arbor - GUI discussion
======================

Thorsten asked for feature requests for Arbor-GUI
* Add support for using named regions and locsets
* Change name from Arbor-GUI maybe (single cell focus, "GUI" is redundant)
    * Arbor Cell

Partners
========

* Basic gap-junction simulation running using the starfish model from Lennart. Also, turns out we do support asymetric gap-junctions. (cool plot can be viewed [here](https://files.slack.com/files-pri/T04NU4NFT-F01R8V0FJTH/image.png).)

* Notes before the Fippa and ArborIO meeting can be found [here](https://demo.hedgedoc.org/WqGhSMaBTIqOUGNIP2GYFA). Please edit/add your contributions, then we can schedule the meetings.

* Harmony hackathon: NeuroML Hackathon is scheduled on Tues/Wednes/Thursday @16:00.


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------


Next time
---------
