Arbor Team Meeting
==================

2021-01-11 13:00

Attendees:
----------

Brent, Nora, Sam, Thorsten

Team Members Update (20 min)
----------------------------

Anne

Ben

Brent

-   Last week: prepared an example, some documentation updates. This
    week: write out ring_network example, and maybe the Python scripts
    in /example/lfp ? Get in touch with at least one Real
    Neuroscientist(tm) to go over the examples.

-   Coming up: HBP students conf, Arbor workshop (90 min). For this I
    want to have the docs/tutorials in ever readier state.

Nora

-   worked on json i/o of cell descriptions and default parameters; PR
    reviews, TODO unit tests.

Sam

-   Last week, fiddling about with this general current stimulus thing.
    Still fiddling: changing from mechanism approach to simply a
    backend-provided functionality, because supporting arbitrarily large
    and run-time variable parameter data for mechanisms was getting
    quite invasive, especially for infrastructure that isn\'t going to
    be used to support user-supplied mechanisms.

Thorsten: Back on deck.

Partners Update (5 min)
-----------------------

Padraig /NeuroML meet

-   neuroml:

-   one file may have multiple cells, you can query the file and get
    morphologies and label_dicts (just in C++ atm).

-   read morph/neuroml

Sam: epsen hagen LFP stuff.

STDP PR? Ready to go?

Language (10 min)
-----------------

Spelling of API, docs, reports.

Not aware of any formal requirements

Idea: quarterly spell-check, as part of quarterly docs
assessment/maintenance.

-   Use en_EU (use en_GB in spellchecker) in API, docs and reports, and
    avoid ambiguous spelling (i.e. midpoint over centre)

-   Sam will go through examples, docs for en_EU check.

Automated Quality Assurance (20 min)
------------------------------------

There's a lot of helpful tools out there, especially when we expect more
contributions

-   Linter: clang-tidy/fb-infer/pvs/\...

-   Formatter: clang-format/\...

-   includes: iwyu

These can be run during CI and will catch stupid mistakes plus remove
discussions about style.\
Partially inspired by our language discussion.

-   Nora will add .clang-format

-   Thorsten wants second pair of eyeballs, test more platforms.

-   Thorsten makes issues outlining goal and steps to get there.

Next Meeting (3 min)
--------------------

-   Sam proposes planning meeting. Roll-up into next weeks
    retrospective? Yes, 13-15:00.

-   Are there any SGA3 deliverables for us?

Tasks
-----

-   Use en_EU (use en_GB in spellchecker) in API, docs and reports, and
    avoid ambiguous spelling (i.e. midpoint over centre)

-   Sam will go through examples, docs for en_EU check.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Nora will add .clang-format

-   Thorsten wants second pair of eyeballs, test more platforms.

-   Thorsten makes issues outlining goal and steps to get there.
