Arbor Team Meeting 2021 12 21
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

Vacations
=========
- AK: 22nd Dec - 14th Jan
- NA: 23rd Dec - 2nd Jan
- FB: 22nd Dec - 9th Jan
- BH: 24 dec - 2 jan
- TH: 21 dec - 

Modelling docs
==============

* New sections in docs?
* Github Discussion as sort of FAQ?
    * Would need to direct people here more.
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/discussions
* Modelling channel Gitter?

* setup modelling page + channel, point them to disc.

Partners
========

* We should tie outputs to the end of work (like the call we had for https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1709)
    * Unpublished/-able models and workflows are not worth our time ATM. We should ask partners to create those outputs, or at least give us timelines for them.
* New deadline for perf comp paper: feb 25.

Visibility
==========

* [FB] M1 fiddling.


Synapse NMDA/AMPA
=================

Clear now that it won't require to much work to support these. See [1].

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* Team training: agreed on TAQT, need to fill out application form for P-E;
    * [BH] Send without a date.
* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

[1]

# AMPA/NMDA Synapses

## Discussion with Sam post Arborio check-in
**Some implementation methods were proposed but not fully thought out yet**

Relevant papers:
1. Main paper: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16207782/
2. Secondary paper describing the geometry: 
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12165473/ (particulary figure 3E).

Mechanism NMODL: 
- https://senselab.med.yale.edu/ModelDB/ShowModel?model=128446&file=%2fShortTermPlasticityMFGRC_Nieus2006%2fAmpa.mod

- Paper (1) describes the 3 parts of the AMPA synapse. 
    - Presynaptic part: solve the set of ODEs from equation 1 in the paper. This is modeled inside the `NET_RECEIVE` `if (flag==0)` branch in the nmodl file (`u` in the nmodl file plays the role of `P` from equation 1). After solving the ODEs, calculate a `T`. `T` is the strength of the glutamate pulse into the synaptic cleft. The formula for obtaining `T` is written in equation 2 in the paper. The `Y` in that equation is coming from the presyaptic end. 
    - Postsynaptic part: the `BREAKPOINT` block in the nmodl file. Includes diffusion (for now) but the main role is solving the kinetic scheme.  
    - Diffusion part: Before getting into this we should distinguish between 2 types of state in the nmodl file: the regular state we are used to in the `STATE` block, and a new kind of state (which Arbor does not support) that is local to a *connection*. For example, in Neuron, we can have a single synaptic site with `n` incomming connections. Each of these connections can have it's own state, so each time a spike is received on one of the `n` connections, the connection-local state can change, BUT ALSO the synaptic state can change. These connection-local states are the arguments of the `NET_RECEIVE` function in the nmodl file. Basically, whenever any of the incomming connections to the synapse spike, the `T` variable is updated. 
    So, now we can look at the `T` variable and I am NOT certain of my understanding her. `T` is not a connetion-local state, it is a normal shared `STATE` variable. From the POV of the postsynaptic part, the mechanism is always either in the middle of a glutamate release ( `T` is being written and its history saved in the `PRE` array in the `on` stage of the `NET_RECEIVE`) or there's no glutamate (in the `off` stage). Essentially, after the pulse of `T` is out of the way (the `on` stage is over and we are in the `off` stage) there is some "residual gluatamate" from the connections that diffuses radially onto the synapstic site. The physical model is probably that previous events have emitted glutamate onto the cleft at various locations, at some fixed average radius away, and that glutamate is diffusing radially onto the synapse (paper 2, figure 3E).  

- Why can't we do this in Arbor (right now)?
    - Because we don't have the notion of connection-local state. So, if the synapse has more than 1 incomming connection, we can't calculate `T`. 
- How can we do this in Arbor? (initial proposal)
    - We split the mechanism into 2 mechanisms: a presyaptic mechanism and a postsynaptic mechanism, the presyn mech will be the target of the connection and the postsyn is an discrete mech placed on the same site with no associated connection. If in neuron we have `n` connections ending on a single synapse, in Arbor we'll have `n` connections, each ending on one of `n` presyn mechs (and either 1 or `n` postsyn mechs - [NA] thinks 1, but remembers [SY] said `n`). In each of these presyn mechs, the connection-local state can now be regular`STATE` and each of the presyn mechs can contribute to some underlying `T` (also `STATE`) that will be reduced between all the presyn mechs on a single site at every dt. `T` can then be used by the postsyn site to solve the kinetic scheme. `T` can be managed similar to how we manage ions. 
    - We still have the issue of the diffusion models and the arrays. It's less clear to [NA] how we'll get rid of the arrays, but [SY] maybe has some ideas. As for the site of the diffusion, we could make it such that the presyn mech is responsible for calulating the pulse of `T` *and* the diffusion of `T` and the postsyn mech can be responsible only for solving the kinetic scheme. 

## Discussion with Robin about paper (1). 
- [NA] I was trying to visualize the model, and that's when I understood [SY]'s reference to figure 3E in paper (2). The middle bulb is the glomerulus, the  black rods connected to it are the granule cells. Each glomerulus is connected to 50 granule cells. When the glomerulus spikes, the glutamate can spill over from any of the 50 granule cells. The glutamate from the far away sites diffuses onto each local site. 
- [NA] I had originally thought that the glutamate contribution from different sites as being done using the `NET_RECEIVE` function with multiple connections coming onto the same synapse, but I now think what is happening is different. Each synapse has only one incoming connection, and we estimate the glutamate contribution from the other sites without actually sharing any state between the granule cells. Again, I'm not entirely sure, this is just my current understanding. 
- Robin verified that each synapse has only one incoming connection. If this is true, this would simplify a lot of the work that needs to be done as we would no longer need to implement a scheme for sharing the `T`. 

