Arbor Team Meeting 2021 08 17
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie or https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

Partner milestones
==================

* Time for FIPPA and Arborio check-in? On track for their M18 milestones (end of september)?
* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/4

Next rel
========

* v0.6?
* gui?
* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3

Partners
========

* (text-only updates preferable)


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

