Arbor Team Meeting 01.02.2021
=============================

Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>?

Presence
--------



Issues
------



PRs
---



How to use Kanban
=================

* New org-level dev board at https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
    * Can add issues from all arbor-org repos.
* Issues only? (No PRs)
    * [You can manipulate the status of Issues with keywords](https://docs.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/)linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue#linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-a-keyword
* Close the old one? https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/projects/13
* What do we do with the Coop board? https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/2
* Milestones? https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/milestones
* [Bug tag?](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abug)
* arbor-sim/arbor-gui?

Item 2
======



Partners
========

* Pramod mail Feb 2.
* FIPPA kickoff/meeting necessary?


End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

