Arbor Team Meeting 2021 05 11
=============================

Meeting link: https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

About the Origin of Origins
===========================

Specifically how we accommodate user requests for the GUI.

TH: GUI matters: shift to next week please.

Done.

SGA3_Use_Cases_spreadsheet
==========================

https://drive.ebrains.eu/lib/946a10d2-cc48-4195-9150-0e4a62c405fb/file/Docs/SGA3_Use_Cases_spreadsheet.xlsx
Currently, there are no Arbor-related 'use-cases'. Do we want to offer up a few?

* We do not add Arbor-gui -> WASM.

Our partners projects would be good fit, even though they are in different tasks.

TODO: Ask Luca about defintion for 'use case'.

Arbor team infra
================

email
-----
We have
* arbor-sim@fz-juelich.de. It a bit hard to handle and configure, and only by FZJ staff.
* arborsim@gmail.com. Also used for our calender, Google search management (yes this needs to be managed, otherwise Pramod will find one year out of date URLs again) and conducting questionnaires (Google Docs).
* arbor-sim@protonmail.com.
* get our own domain?
    * collect online docs, website in same spot while we're at it.
    * Seb is in favor! Current situation is confusing.

BH: I want to move off @fz-juelich.de. The adddress needs to be easy to transfer and work across institutional boundaries. A pity Ebrains does not do that yet, but here we are.

TH: I like the idea of our own domain, but the practicalities are non-trivial (who pays, specifically which legal entity; who admins, ...). Doing email is even worse

Nora, Sam and I volunteer to read this email.
Nora, Sam and I in favor of domain.

chat
----

Concerning Slack replacements: there is chat.ebrains.eu now. Also juchat.fz-juelich.de. Both rocketchat based.

* Limited chat history in Slack.
* Some don't want to depend on Ebrains infra.
* Discord?
* Self-hosted Mattermost, Sebastian?

PR
--

PRs linger long. Too long. I want to change this. Github confirms: arbor-sim/arbor/pulls is our most visited page! See also Seb getting impatient after ~2-3 days: for me it is no different! Branches go stale, minds too, having to wait long on review and merging isn't good for anyone. Also, our dream of a community project means PR review is hopefully the main task of team members, so it would be good practice :)

* What's a good way to speed PR review up? Shall we have a goal for maximum shelf time?
* Peer PR review (do it together)?

TH: PRs: Yeah, sometimes it takes a while, but that's usually because noone feels qualified and/or it's a huge change. So, yes, please keep at it, but mostly it's justified.

BC: related: people not entering a good PR message. Have a bulleted list in the template instead of a link?

[SY] Automated approaches to encourage good PR/issue practice aren't necessarily going to be very effective; we should (politely) guide contributers to improve PR descriptions and to write good issues.
    TODO: take a few bullets and put them in the template.

[SY] Also, strongly encourage issues to be made with PRs, ideally before the PR, so the problem can be investigated or evaluated separately from the proposed fix.
    TODO: contribution guidelines.

[SY] When PRs are submitted: add requested devs for review. Devs get notified automatically, and then can elect to put themselves as 'assigned' to the PR. Devs can 'unsuggest' themselves if they feel that they are a poor fit, but should probably leave a comment as to why. In the absence of requested devs (say, from an external PR), or if no one elects themselves to be assigned, we can assign someone in the weekly meeting PR review.

[NA]: do some PRs require multiple reviewers?

Consensus: re the PR to specific people, and feel free to re-assign (to yourself or others). Try to review open PRs daily and assign.

LIF PR
------

How to say no to PRs
- from externals that we didn't plan or ask for?
- internally

Sam, Nora: not merge.

[SY] Reason not to merge (and we should say to SS): it's relying upon NMODL semantics that we don't want to support in the future, but we don't yet have an alternative scheme in place; also, we're not sure about its general utility. When the mechanism ABI code is finalized, this and other NMODL mechanisms should be able to built easily out of tree, reducing the benefit of having it bundled.

ARM CI
------

It works on Ault.

https://gitlab.com/cscs-ci/arbor-sim/arbor/-/pipelines/300838660


Partners
========

* (text-only updates preferable)


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

