Arbor Team Meeting 2021 03 08
=============================

Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

* Anne K. will not return until late summer (5 aug. is the current estimate). Reason is that daycare is all haywire due to covid.

Planning planning
=================

* Strategy
    * We have SGA3 final docs, and WP5 internal delivarables.
* v0.6
* Hackathon.
    * Hook up with NeuroML 23-25march? Nice to come in with a goal.

Item 2
======



Partners
========

* (text-only updates preferable)


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

