Arbor Team Meeting 2021 07 06
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie or https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: NA, BH, SY, BC

Gap junctions
=============

https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1600

- Max is interested. Suggested adding new explicit gap-junctions mechanisms.
- [NA] Still thinks that adding a way to implement this through NMODL is worthwhile. It is the only way to implement stateful gap-junctions. But if we're going to allow additional explicit gap-junctions, and that's all arborio needs, NMODL gap-junctions can wait perhaps until we have arblang.
- **Questions**:
    - Should we implement NMODL gap-junctions now?
    - Do we do it ourselves? Or guide arborio devs? We haven't discussed distribution of responsibilities when it comes to changes to arbor.
        - We encourage them to fork and try things out.
        - We then do things our way.
    - Questions to arborio:
        - If they want to contribute to arbor (How do you want to contribute?). If yes, point to issue for questions and to the contribution guidelines.
        - How many gap-junction models they have in mind. (SY: If there are only a handful of stateless GJ models in the literature, then a switch-on-enum might just be fine.)


Arbor presentations
===================

- Can now be found here: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-materials/tree/master/presentations
- Presentations were just copied, so original authors and history are lost.
- https://github.com/eth-cscs/bernstein can be archived.

-> Turn tutorials and workshop materials into jupyter notebooks
    - SY: example of good tutorial structure: http://steps.sourceforge.net/manual/manual_index.html

Partners
========

* [NA] Not much this week on my end.
* [BH] Scouting CNS for potential partners, no real results yet. Workshop didn't have active participants

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

EBRAINS meeting 2021-07-06 @ 3pm
================================

* No news about the
* EBRAINS simulator web page has been updated
    * https://ebrains.eu/services/simulation/#services
    * added a "get in touch of the community" section
    * there is a link to the Guidebook
    * Looks pretty nifty... they are looking for more single-cell and detailed modeling
        * not so subtle hints that we can contribute
    * Felix gave feedback that there are quite a few clicks, and finding the parts that do something
        * There was agreement that bringing the tools and workflows to the front page would be helpful
        * Apparently the page layout is fixed, and the core team doesn't want to change it.
* Collab v1. will close down soon (September)
    * doesn't affect us.
* There will be an EBRAINS master class at the end of this summer
    * for training professors from Asian institutes about how to use the resource
* No T5.2 meeting in August (summer vacations)
    * next one September 7th
    * at that point we will have a final decision on the Summit
    * have to prepare to present at the summit

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

Next time
---------
