Arbor Team Meeting 01.03.2021
=============================

Collaborative editing: Copy-paste to <https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new>

Presence
--------

All

Issues
------

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3

* CV policies in the decor (`cable_cell_parameter_set`)
  https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1334

 There was some conversation about the Python wheels:
 - agreed to generate wheels in GitHub Actions
     - we need to discuss policies for uploading to PyPi separately
 - Sam will investigate whether we can rely on Python providing libxml2 requirement for default NeuroML support

PRs
---

* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls
* #1318: ben takes look
* Update `set_ion` method of `cable_global_properties` to allow the addition of new ions
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1388

Issues from last meeting
------------------------

- Draft/WIP PR workflow and/or conventions.
    - Assign Issue to person to communicate that you're working on it.
    - Small PRs: can maybe convert, larger PRs: close and make new PR.
    - Add e.g. '[DRAFT]' in the PR title of a draft PR.
    - Let's avoid flipping back and forth between draft and regular status.
- Preparation work for next NeuroML chat:
    - Python Brunel network is WIP (#1404).
    - Discussion on synapse naming is yet to really happen (#1394)
        - Let's hold a follow up meeting: 13:00 Tuesday 2nd

Overhaul Testing
----------------

Currently
- we have no mechanism unit tests (#1402).
- our GPU tests are lacking in coverage (#820).
- also, our GPU/CPU tests could be homogenised (#820).

Consequently, let us make #820 a priority, then solve #1402.

https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/820
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1402

ASC File Support
----------------

Support for parsing asc files is in place
- limitted to single sample or single contour somas
    - attach all axon/dendrites to the
- asc files (and neurolucida in general) only supports CellBody, Axon, Dendricit cand Apical sub-tree types
    - we can use SWC tags internally
- I have some basic unit tests. Still missing:
    - a few more unit tests
    - documentation
    - python wrapper

To discuss:
- how to handle annotations (spines, terminal markers)
- and specifically how to handle workflows that edit the cell (e.g. removing the axon)
    - such meta-data changes when the morphology is modified.
- do other formats support "point cloud" descriptions of somas?
    - it might be useful meta-data to show in the gui.

Python Installation
-------------------

- Options
    - Separation of concerns: make setup.py be the best Python citizen, CMake the best ??? citizen.
        - Setup.py: modcc, has all options CMake has?
        - Setup.py: modcc, build-catalogue
    - Expand CMake with `pyenv-install` target
    - Other?

TODO:
- Ben update the installation docs to help python users using CMake.

Partners
========

ArborIO:
- Sam made first contact with Max who will work on distributed gap junctions. He just graduated, so he can start focussing on Arbor.
- Starfish single-cell model running.
- New slack channel [#neuroml2arbor](https://mcnest.slack.com/archives/C01NWQN7WG7) created by Lennart, for discussing issues with automatic translation from NeuroML to nmodl.
- Robin has successfully compiled his nmodl mechanisms and is waiting on ASC morphology parsing, but we may start porting with a dummy morphology.

FIPPA:
- Cristian contacted me to say that they received positive feedback about funding. Wants to organise a meeting.

```
REDACTED
```

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

* Move weekly meeting to Tuesday?
    - 12:30 pm - 14:00 pm Tuesday afternoons agreed.

Next time
---------

