Arbor Team Meeting 2021 08 10
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie or https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-8hm-slc-1ni
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: BH, TH, SY, AK

AK's small stuff
====================

* Talked to Sandra, she talked to someone at Standford, might be interested in using Arbor deep brain stimulation. He'll get back to Sandra in 2 weeks.
* HBP Summit, do we attend?
* SY and AK will discuss LFPy(kit)
* 

Open PRs
========

* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1618/files
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1620/files

Partners
========

* (text-only updates preferable)


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

 
