Arbor Team Meeting 2021 04 06
=============================

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/kod-knuo-pie
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: Sam Yates (SY), Ben Cummings (BC), Nora Abi Akar (NA), Brent Huisman (BH)

IWYU
====

https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1460

Compiling arbor with IWYU generates a log of suggested changes, which can then be applied using a python script.

**Some observed issues**:

* Getting to a point where no changes are suggested requires several iterations where some of the changes suggested in a previous iteration are then undone.
* My personal IDE (clangd-based inspection) marks a lot of the newly added headers as unusued.
* It suggests incorrect transformations that break the build.
* The python script seems to be buggy. It'll sometimes just shuffle includes in a file without removing or adding anything. The reason seems to be that there other suggestions in the generated log file that weren't being picked up.
* The python script applies sub-optimal sorting. It'll only sort the newly added headers relative to one another. It wont insert them in the correct spot relative to other headers of the same type. A lot of manual work is needed to make things look right.
* The python scripts adds arbor's public headers between quotes as opposed to angle brackets.

**Question**:

If a header is included in `foo.hpp`, is it good practice to include it again in `foo.cpp`?

**Opinion**:

I don't think the tool is mature enough to incorporate into our workflow.

Synapse Identification
======================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1394

The plan is to attach labels to synapses, gap-junctions and threshold-detectors which can then be used to refer to them in the recipe.
LIF and source cells have implicit sources and targets. Should we make these explicit?

Frontiers paper
===============

No update since march 4 from BBP. Proceed anyway?
* BH: It's a great opportunity to advertise, and we could really use an update to the 2018 poster to convince people we offer better performance.
    * Have benchmarks part of CI?
* BC: Is such an effort a good use of our resources?
    * In favor of investing instead in software and collaboration with users
* BC: Would prefer to target a "real" journal.
* BH: None of the above conflicts with a press release/technical note.
* BC: Ask Robin about ~1000 cell network mix of pyramidal/purkinje cells. GPU?
    * Scaffold model?
    * Egidio on board?
    * Reach out in check-in.
* Followup with BBP/Pramod?
    * They are interested in making their pipeline more generic?
    * Ask: hoc script -> json description of single cell models.

Partners
========

* T52 meeting today cancelled, on request by EPFL on account of easter holidays an not wanting to miss our Arbor presentation. Next meet one is may. We were supposed to discuss how the group will deliver the Sonata model milestones.
   * SY: We've also been requested (by MM) to provide an Arbor update next meeting covering specifically: OpenWorm; LFPy.

Benchmarks
==========

* BH: ubench (micro benchmarks) is our set of micro benchmarks to track things like vectorization regressions. It uses Google Benchmark. NSUITE is for larger workloads closer to actual use, and has a validation component.

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

Fujitsu Aarch64:
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1473
    * Ben contact Lutz Weischer @ Fujitsu about whether he enabled SVE
    * NA will run ubench on AArch64

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

