Arbor Team Meeting 2021 03 08
=============================

Presence: all - {ben}

* Anne K. will not return until late summer (5 aug. is the current estimate). Reason is that daycare is all haywire due to COVID.

Planning planning
=================

* Strategy
    * We have SGA3 final docs, and WP5 internal deliverables.
    * TODO: compile list of
        * What's the role of the WP manager?
        * Are there deliverables in Plus?
        * Know specific Arbor deliverables
        * Identify WP deliverables where we could contribute, preferably by presenting things we're planning already anyway.
        * Clarify partner-deliverables
    * https://terminplaner4.dfn.de/
        * not wednesday, tuesday
* v0.6
    * minor versioning
    * automation?
    * Have a GUI!
    * v0.5.1 for wheels?
    * schedule after strategy meeting.
* NML Hackathon.
    * Hook up with NeuroML 23-25march? Nice to come in with a goal.
    * Register
    * https://github.com/OCNS/SoftwareWG/discussions/11#discussioncomment-428423
    * Ideas, also bring up march 18 in call with Padraig
      - Spatial varying parameters
      - NML -> NMOD export (chat with Padraig!)
      - Completeness (e.g. missing Neuron defaults) of NeuroML files, e.g. https://github.com/AllenInstitute/sonata/blob/master/docs/SONATA_DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md#neuroml
    * Attendance: Nora, Sam, Brent, Thorsten

* Internal Hackathon Ideas
  - ArbLang
  - GUI
  - Invite FIPPA/Arborio
  - Connection Algebra (NOT Connection Set Algebra, the MUSIC guy)
  - In may? maybe IRL?
* In-Situ Hackathon (Aachen)
  - 8–9 April
  - Arbor integration is a topic; we (Sam? + Thorsten) could participate.
* Project 'quality'
    * Quick summary of relevant stuff from SIAM meeting (Sam), but basically: xSDK policies? rateyourproject?
    * https://xsdk.info/policies/
      * Homework: Take a look, compare notes
    * https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/projects/4476


PRs/Issues up for discussion
============================

* Brunel.py: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1420

* Synapse naming https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1394 — useful dev chat last week; should we progress? (Relevant to NeuroML discussions.)
    * Resolution: all good to proceed; prioritize in strategy.

* ~~Not an issue (yet):~~ documentation work. Still many gaps, how will we break this up?
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1242
    * Python API: will be addressed autodoc https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1172
    * Resolution? clean up & close 1242, make new. Or repurpose 1242? Start with TODOs; Python versions of documented C++ classes.

* To be addressed before or right after cable-cell-formats are in:
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1419
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1408

* Please review the current steps of the ABI
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1406
    * https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1376

* Python API test coverage.
    * ☹

Partners
========

* (text-only updates preferable)
* If someone wants to help with the porting efforts for ArborIO, that would be welcome. Should we open a separate channel for each project?
* ArborIO: Possible issue: We're only getting a match with neuron when we use either very finely grained discretizations or discretization that respect region boundaries. Needs debugging to determine whether this is a model bug (most likely) or an arbor bug.
* ArborIO: We need to clean up all of the automatically generated nmodl files. I think this needs to be done manually and will probably require around a day of work and constant maintenance (the neuroML files are subject to change).
* BBP:
    * Felix does not want head2head comparison
    * Instead an ecosystem/fileformat review
    * Proposal: any coop starts with getting a single cell model to work in both Arbor and (Core)Neuron. get Pramod/Omar to provide us a Sonata single cell model/cooperate on https://github.com/bcumming/cnrn-arb-cell
* Sam had a chat with Max (FIPPA) — brief summary.

Other Issues & PRs (not up for disc.)
=====================================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

Issues:
-------

PRs:
----
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1411 — version stuff; any barriers to review or merge?

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

- Read xSDK policies and to the self-assesment.
- bring up NML hackathon ideas in Padraig meet 18 march

Next time
---------


### Appendix： Proposed agenda In Situ Pipeline Hackathon


Day 1

1. Introduction 09:00-09:15 (incl. finalization of agenda)
2. Presentations
    a.      View into Insite (RWTH) - 09:15-09:45
    b.      Presentation of the NRP use case (Sandro Weber, someone else) 09:45-10:00
    c.      Overview and finalization of focus groups 10:00-10:15
3. Work in focus groups 10:30-16:30 - choose:
    a.      Arbor integration into InSite
    b.      NEST Desktop insitufication
    c.      ViSimpl insitufication
    d.      Simple web-based visualization for NRP
    e.      Elephant and the in situ pipeline
    f.       NRP as running use case for the hackathon
4. Wrap-Up 16:30-17:00


Day 2

1. Kick-Off 09:00-09:30
2. Work continues in focus groups 09:30-15:00
3. Wrap-Up 15:00-16:00
