Arbor Team Meeting 2022 02 08
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new

*Sort your input prior to meeting by importance. Add less important/less time senitive items in 'FYI' section.*
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence:

# NML2
- Working prototype achieved
- Can be part of 0.7
- FYI: Status quo
  - NMODL channels w/ 2-3x speed-up over jnml
  - Single cell simulation templates
  - BH working on network support
  - TH going back through the code base and doing some clean-up
  - Some issues to be addressed
    - Networks w/ IAF cells
    - Inputs wiring
    - Simulation template based on `recipe` instead of `single_cell_model`
    - better semantic analysis

# Axial Diffusion
- Another round of design work with Sebastian scheduled
- More or less convinced that 'diffusion of `Xi`' will not work. New plan
  - Add `Xd` to be an independent diffusive quantity
  - Mechanisms can read/write `Xd`
    - atomicity needed
    - as per FIPPA's requirements: sources, sinks, decay
    - _may_ fold decay into diffusion
    - if feedback to `Xi` needed, mechs can simply write `Xi = Xd`

# New CellGroups
- Issue here https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1832
- Came from EDEN paper, discussion TH/BH
- NA: related to probing LIF cells
    - simulate LIF cells more precisely (talk to BC)
- need generalised probing for 'artificial/abstract cells'
- related to BYO cell groups
    - BC: Let's gather use cases from CEoI projects to prioritise
    - collect requirements from Sebastian, Max, Lennart, and Robin

Arblang
=======

- Parsing, unit normalization, name resolution and type checking done (not fully tested yet). 
- Started thinking about and implementing optimization passes. 


Exporting symbols
===
- [FB] PR up; problem with python unit tests

SDE
===
- [FB,NA] start discussing when first PR is done

GJ
==
- ongoing, almost done
- convergence testing on minimal linear GJs (plan for more complex GJs)

Team meetings and events
========================

- **Prep dev meeting**, 16th Feb, 11:00-14:00: Agenda and status quo here https://demo.hedgedoc.org/zAEWgdFYRdCqcl8RdaeKsg, any changes/additions **until Tuesday, 15th Feb, 14:00**:
    - please go through the issues mentioned in the tables under 'Collection of Issues to be discussed (tbd)'
        - if necessary, please update the milestone (to v0.7/v0.8) directly in our GitHub Kanban board (https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3)
    - also go through the backlog in our GitHub Kanban board (when issue is not mentioned in the tables) and update the milestone (to v0.7/v0.8) in case you'd like to discuss a new issue in the meeting
    - in case there are any issues merged post v0.6 (before the prep dev meet) please include them under 'Big issues merged since v0.6, up for release in v0.7'
- **Team training** (2 half days) + Arborathon (1-3 days): Please fill out your availabilities **until end of this week**: https://doodle.com/poll/h9rvvf9wf4qcgskc
- **Strategy meeting**: Please fill out your availabilities **until end of this week**: https://doodle.com/poll/fighht7wh9kmz28i
- **JUWELS Booster Tuning and Scaling Workshop 2022, 7-11 March 2022, online**, https://www.fz-juelich.de/ias/jsc/EN/Expertise/Workshops/Conferences/JUWELS-Booster-Tuning-2022/_node.html: registered, but unclear if workshop will take place due to low number of registrations (deadline extended)
    - maybe use time (if not taking place) anyway for e.g. pair-programming efforts
- Suggestions for **Social Events**: 
    - Team dinner via VC (everybody orders/cooks food and we eat and chat, also with family members)
    - C/Mocktail tasting via VC (mix and drink favorite drinks together, e.g. one week one drink chosen by one team member)
        - Lunch!
    - Game night online, e.g. 
        - Cards against Humanity (TH: bad game!) https://picturecards.online/static/index.html; Draw and guess https://skribbl.io; Codenames (word guessing) https://codenames.game (TH: good game!)
        - https://boardgamearena.com
        - table top simulator (if everybody has access)
        - Quake II(I)
        - Age of Empires I(I(I(I)))
        - Star/WarCraft
    - [AK] TODO: set up doodle for first online social event

Partners
========

* [BH] email exchange w/ Katrien (Felix, Pramod, Jim)
* Robin paper: plan to wrap up this week.
* [AK,BH,TH] Meeting on Structural plasticiy with Sandra Diaz (SimLab) and Han Lu (University of Freiburg) on Wednesday, 9th Feb, 11:00



Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

For your information only
=========================
 * Private files (e.g., retrospective, strategy, reporting, KPIs) now in GitHub under https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-private
 * Summary of retrospective: 

|  | Good | Improve | More | Try | Less |
|- | ---- | ------- | ---- | --- | ---- |
| Weeklies | team dynamic; structure/time boxing; spin-offs; physically raising hand | not to cut discussions too short | give ‘silent’ person chance to talk | better prepare agenda beforehand to be even more productive; sort by importance; add section 'FYI' | - |
| Responsibilities | better clarity on team roles | even more clarity on team roles | collective knowledge in core Arbor| BH to track work/ responsibilities in boards/ stategy meetings/ minutes | silos in knowledge areas |
| Release | structure/ cycle; code base | finding compromises on issues/PRs to mitigate blockages; involve 3rd person if not coming to a conclusion; timing outside holidays | push for reviews  | release span instead of fixed date; block 1 week prior for dedicated release work; add executive summary at the beginning of note | - |
|Strategy | [HBP board](https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/4) in GitHub | use [cooperation boards](https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/2) in GitHub | plan next strategy session; keep records in GitHub [here](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-private); Arbor as an eco-system | - | - |
| Overall || communication in written channels/chats by being more conscious;  | pair-programming; ask for help/support; socialising | - | shifting/skipping meetings| 


End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

Next time
---------

