# Arbor Team Meeting 2022 05 02

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://notes.desy.de/new
Action & Decision board: https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/5/views/2
Previous agendas/minutes: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-materials/tree/master/minutes/teammeets
Dev board: https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
Open PRs: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

Have a brief intro to your item if possible.
Add less important/less time sensitive items in 'FYI' section.
Please don't add items less than 24hrs before the meeting.

Presence: BH, TH, LD, SF, FB

**Agenda**: 
1. xx - 15 mins
2. xx - 15 mins
3. xx - 15 mins


## Last weeks hackathon + training

- Was the hackathon useful?
    - Simon's new project hopefully cleared up
        - [DSL for higher level network specifications](https://arbor-sim.org/dsl-for-higher-level-network-specifications/)
    - SDE (thx Fabian)
    - Arbor's context in the bigger picture hopefully cleared up (https://jamboard.google.com/d/1DlnmiaDbKrYiDapfWyR4ubtUgIfLJoZxgDoZauJWnF0/viewer)
        - Action: [BH] shape up first slide, add to docs.
- Was the training useful?
    - TH: Common sense, but useful
    - FB: skeptical at first, but pretty good. More aware of others/team
    - L : same, very good to meet in person and have the trainer, Jasper. Clarified a few things.
    - S : overall good, good to discuss process.
    - BH: bretty gud
    - Belbin results (@all: please correct [TH] done mine)

- Some actions/decisions:
    - Weekly: 
        - [AK] prepares doc **after each weekly (Tuesdays)** to be filled with your agenda items for next week's meeting
        - @all: Add agenda items up **until Mondays, 13:00 (24hrs before)**, so that [AK] can prepare agenda on Mondays
        - per agenda item:
            - Orientation - @owner: Add brief intro to agenda items to let others know what it's about, answer questions
            - Arguments
            - Decisions - @owner: Summary at end of each agenda item.
                - Decisions/Action points 
                - Questions
        - Have [action board](https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/5/views/2) and put major actions and decisions in it.
    - Stand-up: 
        - weekly (**until Fridays**), out of phase with meeting if possible
    - Other meetings:
        - Meet regularly in person (at two sites).
        - Have vision meeting.

## NeuroML2 [TH]
- Workshop last week, some interesting points:
  - More people are flocking to the banner
    - including NestML(!) for want of users. Offered a hand/collab.
    - ACTION[TH]: Keep tabs on Charl
  - There's biosimulators https://biosimulators.org/
    - central repo of containers and infrastructure, with a focus on quality
    - upload a sedml (another XML) file and get a recommendation for a tool to run
    - click to run on their HW or download a container w/ it
    - should we register Arbor? Seems a valuable source of checking and new (cold) users.
        - ACTION: [BH] Investigate possible registration of Arbor.
    - https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.06732
- Otherwise mental contortions to get networks in continue

## Structural Plasticity [TH]

- Workshop on Plastic Arbor has been accepted.
- Currently reading some papers on the topic.
- Seems we might want a head start (before september.
- I'll try to sketch some ideas in the near future.
- Intro:
    - Hebbian learning: weights of connections evolve -> learning
    - Structural Plasticity: the biological process of connections (synapses) growing and decaying.
        - dendritic spine
        - axonal boutons
    - modelling challenge: 
      - 0th order approximation: all-to-all w/ weight=0 
      - an evolving connection table
        - weights and delays
        - bouton ./. spine
      - connection algorithm: N^2 ./. N log(N)
        - Octrees
      - evolving morphology
  - when do we form new connections?
      - each cell wants homeostatis: stable spiking rate.
      - formation probability proportional to square of distance to other connection point
  - ACTION:
    - BH set up meeting
    - TH Make Issue on plasticity with literature list, sort out possible implementations and algorithms
  - interest:
      - Lukas
      - Fabian

## Partners

- (text-only updates preferable)

## FYI / Announcements (no discussion)

- Stategy meeting minutes in [private repo](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-private/blob/master/Meetings%20and%20Minutes/20220427-arbor-strategy.md)

- Axial diffusion interlock ~~Wed 10:00~~ (was moved up due to urgent need). 
- L2L the search for a better fitness continues. If anyone has ideas, pray tell.

## Parking Space

- None

## Questions

- [AK] Retrospective scheduled next week.
    - ACTION: BH and AK discuss release 0.7
- [L ] talk w/ TH L2L
    - ACTION: Meet thursday at 10:00

## Actions and Decisions

- Have Vision meet after 0.7, maybe a week after retrospective.

## Next time

- Next release 0.7
- Fabian: What is Arblang good for? Have it in the Vision meet.
