# Arbor Team Meeting 2022 04 19

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://notes.desy.de/new

Sort your input prior to meeting by importance. Add less important/less time senitive items in 'FYI' section.
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: BH, AK, BC, 

## WP5 follow up
- exploitation plan: [AK] sent mail to Barbara Gasset from the Innovation team 
    - no reply yet
    - we know any group that does?
        - Sandra: Nest (maybe), TVB (TBD)

## Switzerland
- Switzerland can't be recipient of new EU funded projects
    - That's why CSCS/ETHZ is out.
- Piz Daint will be decommissioned after SGA3 + 6 months or so.
    - Hopefully the end of Unicore :P
- Past SGA3
    - some funding left that can be used to keep lights on a bit longer
    - BlueBrain would be the way to line up money in Switzerland for Arbor, but chances of success uncertain.
    - Any ideas?
        - What'll happen with Ebrains?
            - National Nodes.
- Compute time Robin
    - D98 project has 2800 node hours left.
    - [BH] Told Robin.

## Team meetings and events
- **W17: team get together**
    - **Hackathon**
        - Mon midday - Wed?
            - mon afternoon: 
                - Arrivals Fabian & Simon 10:05-12:00/13:00, 
                - Lunch
                - Prep arbor release 0.7?
            - tues: prep arbor release 0.7?
            - wed: nml
                - Lukas arrives 8:45 am at DUS
                - NML workshop on *Thursday (17:00-20:00)*
            - thurs:
                - strategy: Ben could join 15:00+? We'd need to postpone to the afternoon.
                - *SDE?*
                - *Distr. GJ?*
            - friday: training.
        - Other Topics:
            - distr. gap junctions
                - > Leah is not feeling well
            - Arblang
                - > who'd do this? Nora is gone!
            - Stoch. diff. eq.
                - > Have some slides?
    - **Strategy meeting**: 
        - *@BC: Can you make it via VC? Thurs, 28th*
        - @All: please add any contributions [here](https://demo.hedgedoc.org/Cn3x9SVAR5GY8gftmyRU7A#)
    - **Team training**: Fr, 29th April, 9:30-17:00 in Juelich, JSC, building 16.3, room 350
        - @All: filled out personal **Belbin questionaire** and observer assessment (if asked) until 13th April, 12:00
    - @CSCS: let me know in case you need further help with **travel arrangements**
            - Fabian, Simon: arriving Monday morning, 25th April, 10:05 at DUS airport --> pick up by AK to go to FZJ, reimbursement for parking at CSCS (then meeting point at P12)? 
            - Lukas Wednesday morning 8:45 am at DUS --> pick up by AK to go to FZJ, reimbursement for parking at CSCS (then meeting point at P12)?
            - Hotel: Stadthotel JÃ¼lich

## Reminder
- **Joint lunch** before Weekly, Tuesdays, 12:00-12:30, here:  https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
- Please remember to **enter your contributions to the daily standup gitter channel** (each day)
- Please remember to **enter your contributions to the weekly meeting** (sorted by relevance, each week on Mondays)
- **Vacations**: Please add them to the framagenda calendar


## For your information only
* Sent Nora the farewell card

## Other Issues & PRs

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

## End

### TODO and Decisions

### Next time
