Arbor Team Meeting 2022 02 01
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: NA, BH, TH, FB, AK

Retrospective
======
Summary: 
- Constructive round table
- Detailed results here: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/DCpqnRTqSzeHiuc4gWbhGA?edit and https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-private
- Next steps: 
    - Prep dev meet
    - Strategy meeting
        - Team roles
        - HBP road for the next 1.5 years 
        - Partners/collaborations
        - Funding
    - Weeklies (in general)
        - Improve: hand raising
        - More: give ‘silent’ person chance to talk
        - Less: cutting discussions too short
        - Try: sorting agenda by importance, add 'FYI' section

## Selected topics from retrospective

### Next release planning (timeline)
- **Release**:  mid April (27th Apr due to Easter on 17th, 18th?) --> 25th April - 6th May (CW 17/18)
    - week of 25 april: PR work + review
    - week of 2 may: release
- **Prep dev**: mid Feb (16th Feb)
- **Dev meet**: begin Mar (2nd Mar)
- **Retro**:    begin May (10th May)
- **Strategy**: Week of 14,21 march, 2 hours?
    - [AK] sends Doodle around: https://doodle.com/poll/fighht7wh9kmz28i?utm_source=poll&utm_medium=link
    - There is a FZJ external funding page (only intranet): https://intranet.fz-juelich.de/de/organisation/drittmittelportal
    - H2020: https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-search
    - BUND: https://www.foerderinfo.bund.de/SiteGlobals/Forms/foerderinfo/bekanntmachungen/Bekanntmachungen_Formular.html?cl2Categories_Foerderer=bund
    - Many grants are on personal level
    - Who do we know that are good at getting funding?
        - Sandra Diaz, FZJ
        - PRACE?
        - Allen/Sonata?
        - UCL CRCNS?
        - CompBiomed2
        - Where is sending Padraig his grant applications?

### Discussion on eco-system
- Co-sim
    - [TH] skeptical
- How do we grow new core contributors?
- NA: how to seperate core and ecosystem Arbor?

### Weekly Team Meetings
- Timing/Time boxing/Moderating
- Hand raising

# Team Training

- Application approved by Boris; should now be at workers council;
- To find possible dates, please fill out poll **until end of next week**: https://doodle.com/poll/h9rvvf9wf4qcgskc


Partners
========

* no updates


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------
