# Arbor Team Meeting 2022 07 05

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://notes.desy.de/new
Action & Decision board: https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/5/views/2
Previous agendas/minutes: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-materials/tree/master/minutes/teammeets
Dev board: https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
Open PRs: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

Have a brief intro to your item if possible.
Add less important/less time sensitive items in 'FYI' section.
Please don't add items less than 24hrs before the meeting.

Presence: LD, SF, BH

**Agenda: **
1. xx
2. xx
3. xx
4. xx

## Holidays

### [TH] 
- Moving House 5.7.
- Vacation 10.7.-24.7.

### [BH]
- 6-21 Aug

### [SF]
- 8 - 15 July

## Plasticity 
- Added foundational ability to tweak the connectivity.
  PR is up, please review.
- I'll to chop this up into smaller PRs. 
- Next chunks 
    - Rewiring event gens
    - [?] Adding spike detectors
    - [??] Resetting synapses (hard)
    - [???] Adding synapses (real --ing hard)

## PR review

- SF: more likely to do when it's assignment.
- LD: review #1919

## Updates

- SF: high level network spec. Haven't had much time. Have rough idea of what to do, which was discussed last week. Some things in the prop are not gonna work. Instead of pop of cells, a pop of connection sites.
    - Brent: invite Simon to next convo with Han Lu.
- LD: BluePyOpt. PR for cable cell exporter: https://github.com/BlueBrain/BluePyOpt/pull/393
    - Optimize w/ NRN, and export to Arbor.
    - TODO: have an example.
    - Werner wants voltage traces comp NRN<>Arbor as validation.
    - Question: have Arbor also as simu backend?
        - Allen

## Partners

- (text-only updates preferable)

## FYI / Announcements (no discussion)

- ..

## Parking Space

- Item A

## Questions

- ..

## Actions and Decisions

- https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/5/views/2

## Next time

- https://notes.desy.de/new
 
