Arbor Team Meeting 2022 03 22
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new

Sort your input prior to meeting by importance. Add less important/less time senitive items in 'FYI' section.
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: TH (but really tired and leaving early), BH, NA, BC, FB, S, L

Internal development goals SGA3
===============================

Features we would like to have implemented before the end of SGA3
1. inhomogeneous parameters. #1650
2. SDEs in nmodl. #1655
3. single cell parameter optimization in arbor. #1839
4. distributed gap junctions. #1766
5. arblang compiler. 
6. tools for efficient and user-friendly model building
    - cache discrtizations (optimization)
    - Python wrappers that implement common recipe patterns efficiently
8. fixed timestep for cable cells (remove event delivery mid timestep) 
9. NML support #1621
10. Network DSL and tools
11. The Ergonomics discussion.
    - knocking the edges of API where they annoy / hinder / confuse users.
12. Support for axial diffusion #1651

* See also https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/milestones

Complex synapses
================
- [C++ an CUDA versions](https://github.com/noraabiakar/synapses/tree/main/cat) of AMPA syanpse written and (almost fully) tested. Does exactly what they want, but is opaque, van't be easily editted by users. 
- [NMODL version](https://github.com/noraabiakar/synapses/blob/main/AMPA_approx.mod) incomplete - diffusion has been replaced with a kinetic scheme with uninitialized state vars and 0-valued forward and backward rates. NMODL version needs to be completed, but also needs to be run through a parameter-optimizer. 

# NML
- foundation for networks.
- thinking about how to fix the overall architecture.
  - now that all the building blocks are there, we can tie it up nicely. 
  - I hope

# L2L
- got the magic patch and guess what, it works.
- we'll see if it gets us results after I throw more HW at it.

# PRs
- We got way too many
- Also, bors is not cooperating.
    - BC: how so? Link to an example. 
    - TH: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1860

Deps
====

* A policy enters the chat: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1865
    * Should we even do git submodules? Final decision.
    * Put them all behind the `ARB_USE_BUNDLED_LIBS` CMake flag?
* A concern is raised: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1830#issuecomment-1074972937
    * not updating just because is a good point, greatly improving the lives of our users and spack concretizers.
    * how do we test for version ranges?
        * Maybe not! update, but test lastest version every month
        * update dependencies.csv with which last version passed (or failed)

Todo
-----
* make submodule
    * ext/json
    * ext/random123
* in-repo source: Google Test lives in test/gtest.h
    * make submodule
    * move to ext/
* move pybind to ext/
* in table:
    * distinguish tool from dependency
    * add submodules
* bump versions:
    * leave submodules to lowest possible
    * modify update Action to actually pull and test.

Criteria: if provided by a package manager, then can be git submodule.

Small Qs
========

* Ebrains Lab and resources? (GPU?)
    * openstack, Castor at CSCS.
* Everybody got TAQT email?

Partners
========

* Michele will consider inviting team Arbor for his next Brain Simulation School
    * I've convinced Claudia en Egidio to switch their BSB handson to use Arbor.



Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

For your information only
=========================
 * ..


End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

Next time
---------

 
