Arbor Team Meeting 2022 03 01
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new

Sort your input prior to meeting by importance. Add less important/less time senitive items in 'FYI' section.
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: TH, AK, BH

JUWELS Booster tuning workshop
==============================
- Who's expected to attend?
  - TH, as much as feasible
- Do we need to prepare an application/project to work on?
    - [AK] see below under meetings and events

# Updates
## NML
- bug hunting on Lennart's model
  - concentration models 
  - reversal potentials: jnml emits constants instead of `READ eX`
  - area 
  - handling of ions: jnml thinks lots of things are `NONSPECIFIC`...

## L2L Paper
- submitted :tada: 
- addressing some obvious gaps for the review
  - multiple stimuli per shot
  - sooooo slooooow

# Variable that is accessible from multiple mechanisms: 
- https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1853
- Can't use an ionic concentration because they want to write to the variable from multiple mechanisms. This doesn't work right using the current implementation.

Team meetings and events
========================

- **Dev meeting**, 2nd March, 10:00-13:00
    - Discussion around [Kanban board](https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3)/[prep dev meet tables](https://demo.hedgedoc.org/zAEWgdFYRdCqcl8RdaeKsg?view) 
    - Please add any big issues merged since v0.6, up for release in v0.7
    - Clarified all priorities in last week's Weekly?
        - Issues open for discussion (v0.7/v0.8/none) with TH:
    
| Issue #     | Description | Status       | Comments/Questions     | Agreement |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | -----------|
| [1480](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1480)| Add epoch end time to spike callbacks | in progress, v0.7 | not really in progress; need more robust solution, discuss prio with [in-situ pipeline project](https://devhub.vr.rwth-aachen.de/VR-Group/in-situ-pipeline), TODO: [TH,BH] clarify with Wouter Kljin (co-sim); v0.7-->v0.8?| v0.8? untag? TH: untag!|
| [1621](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1621) | [NML2] Extend NeuroML Coverage | in progress, v0.7 | TODO: [LL+TH] get in contact for detailed discussion; results? | v0.7, TH: v0.7!|
| [1651](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1651) | Support for axial diffusion | in progress, v0.7 | FIPPA; linked to PR draft [1729](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1729); breakout meeting 25th Nov, 10:00 (results?); more detail needed on concentration model; TODO discuss with [TH] due to user urge for v0.7| v0.8? TH: 0.8!|
| [1232](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1232) | Streaming recording of sampled data and spikes | backlog, v0.7 | (high) prio tbd with [in-situ pipeline project](https://devhub.vr.rwth-aachen.de/VR-Group/in-situ-pipeline) TODO: [TH,BH] discuss prio with Wouter Klijn (co-sim)| untag? TH: untag!|
| [1221](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1221) | Library-provided parameterized cell recipe | backlog, v0.7 |  feature; not assigned; [TH] is using [Learning-2-Learn](https://github.com/Meta-optimization/L2L), status? | v0.8? untag? TH: untag!|

- [TH]
  - 1232/1480: **UNTAG**. We have _no_ idea what CoSim needs and wants and   they have not talked to us since a long time. Despite my repeated asking. Also were appointments dropped in Nov. Next chance: this week. Therefore any work for this is likely wasted until we have a concrete design and setting any priority is nonsensical.
  - 1221: **UNTAG**. No idea what the connection is. Parametrized models would have been nice there, but are not part of the prototype. The latter is found in my GH, discussed in diverse weeklies. That said, the parametrised recipe is a nice convenience tool that could make some users very happy.
  - 1621: **TAG 0.7**. Everything in the nmlcc repo. Lennart agreed to come up with single cell models, but that has been discussed in our weeklies. ~~No such input appeared until now.~~ Update: Lennart has provided in the mean time, we are working on debugging NMODL output and understanding the model. 
  - 1651: **TAG 0.8**. Started as a long term, nice to have goal. No change has been communicated (to me) until now. So it was treated as such. Some initial code is there, but the design had to be changed to work with the Cable Model. All of the design and proceedings are in the issue. If it's now suddenly really urgent, I can put it up as my next thing. That won't magically make it 0.7, though. Also, FIPPA is working on a 1d PoC that should be used as validator, but that has not materialised yet.


- Issues open for discussion with BC (v0.7/v0.8/none/done)
        
| Issue #     | Description | Status       | Comments/Questions     | Agreement |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | -----------|
| [1022](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1022) | C++17 migration | backlog, v0.7 | quality, TODO: [NA] verify with Ben Cumming before closing (only few minor issues open), results? | untag? done? |
|[1085](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1085); [1102](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1102) | Tidy SWC, morphology generation helpers; Replace `soma_cell_builder` with builder suitable for NeuroML morphology support) | backlog, v0.7 | v0.8? quality; partially covering but not completely; tackle at same time | untag? done? v0.8? |
|[53](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/53)|Trial use of meson as build system|in progress, no tag| up for v0.7?|v0.7?|
| [1705](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1705)| Change mechanism parameters during simulation| backlog, v0.7 | ArborIO & FIPPA, no longer prio [LL], but could still be a useful feature to have (reg steering); not assigned | v0.8? untag?|

- **JUWELS Booster Tuning and Scaling Workshop 2022, 7-11 March 2022, 09:00-17:00, online: https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/and-rhp-v6u-9sg**
    - **Attendees**: TH (parts), BH (parts), AK (Mo-Wed, 9:00-15:00), more?
    - **preparation meeting** with tutors (j.badwaik@fz-juelich.de, j.mirus@fz-juelich.de) to be scheduled: https://terminplaner4.dfn.de/sxuhxYF51sd4PxqU
        - Access to the JUWELS Booster and the compute project,
        - Check if all software modules you want to use are available
        - Launch your code with a **benchmark** suited input to check the correct execution and get a baseline
    - **TODOs**: https://indico-jsc.fz-juelich.de/event/266/program, read guide https://fz-juelich.de/ias/jsc/EN/Expertise/Workshops/Conferences/Optimisation-Scaling-2019/Guide/_node.html
        - **join the JuDoor project** for the Tuning and Scaling workshop beforehand: https://judoor.fz-juelich.de/projects/join/training2204 Team name: Arbor
        - **prepare application** for the event: It should work with the current software stage. It's good to have different versions of your data set / application at hand to test various numbers of nodes. Please define a plan in advance and work on improving GPU scaling during the week. Please measure a baseline of your application in advance, which you want to improve upon.
          [TH] Works on JUWELS current stage.
          [AK] Could you please share setup/settings?
        - In a **6-minute presentation on Monday**, please introduce your application, your current status, the baseline, and plans for the Workshop. 
            - BH do you have intro slides readily available?
                - On Arbor, yes! Not much on GPU though.
        - Everyday: quick status report
        - On Friday, please **report your status at the end of the week**.
        - Please use the jsc-jwb-ts-22 **RocketChat channel** on JuChat for conversations within your team and with your tutors: https://go.rocket.chat/invite?host=juchat.fz-juelich.de&path=invite%2FxbvSiN
    - **Agenda** https://indico-jsc.fz-juelich.de/event/266/other-view?view=standard 
        - *lectures*: tools, libraries, and techniques are presented for analyzing applications and improving their scaling behavior
	    - *hacking sessions*: work on plan to improve  applications (team of tutors on stand-by to help you with imminent questions, two of them being your primary contact)
        -  two opportunities to *scale your application*, on Wednesday (~40 nodes) and on Thursday (~200 nodes)
    - Possible **topics** [TH]
        - Scaling as far as possible with a synthetic workload (=benchmark cell)
        - Look into spike communication
        - Take Robin's network and drive it to as much HW as possible (realistic workload)
- **Team training** (2 half days) + Arborathon (1-3 days): Please fill out your availabilities **until end of this week**: https://doodle.com/poll/h9rvvf9wf4qcgskc (added more days in May/June)
    - Been accepted by workers council 
    - FZJ placed order with TAQT
    - We can contact TAQT directly for  setting a date
    - Who attends? AK
- **Strategy meeting**: 21st March, 09:00-11:00
    - Agenda
        - Team roles 
        - HBP strategy (next 1.5 years)
            - Arbor feature prios
            - [HBP board](https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/4) in GitHub
        - post-HBP strategy (next +1.5 years)
            - role of CSCS (e.g. in funding, support)
            - partners/cooperations (see [cooperations board](https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/4)) 
            - funding opportunities
                - [H2020]( https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-search), [BUND]( https://www.foerderinfo.bund.de/SiteGlobals/Forms/foerderinfo/bekanntmachungen/Bekanntmachungen_Formular.html?cl2Categories_Foerderer=bund), [PRACE](https://prace-ri.eu)
                - Sandra Diaz, FZJ/ Padraig Gleeson
                - Allen/Sonata, CompBiomed2, UCL CRCNS
                
- **Social Event**: 
    - Suggestion: joint lunch before Weekly, Tuesdays, 12:00-12:30 

Team building workshop
======================
- Update on timeline?
    - [AK] see above under meetings and events

Partners
========

* (text-only updates preferable)


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

For your information only
=========================

* performance comparison paper submitted.
    * Discovered that Robin entered incorrect time data and chucked the source for that data. Is being regenerated for updating in the review phase.

 * 2022 Virtual Guest Student Programme on Scientific Computing, August 1st - October 7th, https://www.fz-juelich.de/ias/jsc/gsp, 
    - Application deadline for mentors: 4th March 2022 (https://go.fzj.de/gsp-mentor-2022, workplan should be designed to cover 8 weeks)
    - Application deadline for students: 30 April 2022

* [Survey of the Allen Institute modeling software covers](https://forms.gle/R1ThdxBE98FhG1uQ6)
    * Brain Modeling ToolKit,
    * SONATA file format, and 
    * Visual Neuronal Dynamics visualization tool

* [Allen Institute Modeling Software Workshop](https://secure2.convio.net/allins/site/R?i=82l42irhNrHf7EJy1vuWkdM5STtoRWIZSMKxqBzImRH-6Gz2VdNCZw): July 25-26, 2022, Seattle, WA
    * Applications are due March 15, 2022
    * hands-on opportunity to learn how to use open-source software modeling tools developed in part at the [Allen Institute MindScope Program](https://secure2.convio.net/allins/site/R?i=KKzX9faA3FczvUqMqks_hFHnOxUEnUpk5Nxtqt-EN4lt5tnovXBbVQ)
    * Topics:
        * Building heterogenous neural networks at different levels of resolution
        * Simulating networks of biophysically detailed, compartmental neuronal models
        * Simulating networks of point-neuron models
        * Providing realistic spiking inputs to the neural networks
        * Simulating perturbations
        * Simulating extracellular electric field
        * Using and sharing models in the SONATA format
        * Visualizing network models’ structure and dynamics in 3D


End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

Next time
---------
