Arbor Team Meeting 2022 01 25
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: TH, BH, BC, AK, NA, FB

Release v0.6
============

- Should be done by now!
- [TH] GUI was brought up to current master
- Retrospective meeting postponed to 1st Feb, 11:00-13:00, https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000, https://demo.hedgedoc.org/DCpqnRTqSzeHiuc4gWbhGA
    - Please think about (one item each):
        - what went well?
        - what can be improved?
        - what we should keep/do more of?
        - what we can try?
        - what we should do less of?
    - BC will be late.

The Sonata Task 2 / T5.2 meet
=============================

Next week is the T5.2 meet. Here the Sonata task will no doubt be on the agenda.

* [BC] never reviewed https://demo.hedgedoc.org/cY_s2gXhQlWvX2pOzDCmgQ#
  * I (BC) read over it, and agreed that it captured what I thought we had agreed in our call.
* [BH] write+send this email today.

Footgun Removal
===============

- Converting arb::cabel_cell_properties to hold on to a catalogue value
- Unremarkable, but 
  1. removes a major pain point for users
  2. Creates a completely surprising series of SEGV/Double free via pybind11
     e.g.
     ```
     llbd python bad.py
     > r
     SEGV
     > r
     Restart? Y
     Task finished with status 0
     > what?
     ```
     Reason _seems_ to be that assigning to `props.catalogue` results in
     the old value being freed (fine!), but the first / default value was 
     not allocated by pybind11 and so it implodes. If that is the case, I
     would be really confused, because these things should happen often.
     - Not reassigning: OK
     - Reassign old value: double free
     - Assign something else: SEGV
- It's annoying to debug
  - not occuring in C++
  - no stack trace
  - also: which value?!

NML
===

- Single command exporter `nmlcc bundle hh.cell.nml out.d`
  - Need to add T, dt, stimuli, but that's very possible
  - Morphologies are haphazardly collected
- Tests showed divergence from jnml, simple units issue
- Arbor is happy with my NMODL and ACC exports
  - `jnml <mech.nml> -neuron` needs lots of adjusting in a messy file.
- Performance is about 40% faster than `jnml <mech.nml> -neuron`
  - However, the output is very nice to further polish
  - My hand-written NMODL based on `nmlcc` is 60% faster, working on automating that
- Is Padraig up to date on this work?
  - How could we get ~~some of his money~~ long term funded collaboration?
- [TH] Plan intro to NML to Arbor team

Partners
========

* Robin status?
  * [TH, AK, BH] review tomorrow
  * distributed GPU simulation is crashing with 12 nodes without a clear error/exception status
      * not the first time we have seen this issue
      * TH thinks it might be a kernel launch issue
      * we can just use scaling results for 4 and 8 GPUs for the paper.
  * TODO ben adds thorsten to his group.
* [BH] Bernstein last week: Davide Bassetti plans a study, interested in simulating his labs wetwork results
    * GUI was main attractor!
      [TH] Nice.
    * LFPykit integration seemed to be his interest
        * Was not sure how much morpho would add to the study.
    * Would like to start in the shortterm, would come back to us for a call if he is up for Arbor
    * Might involve an optimization process.
        * L2L? to be checked. Current work is focussed on voltage trace.
* [BH] A postdoc in Freiburg is interested in Arbor+plasticity.
    * Waiting for a call with Sandra Diaz (FZJ) this or next week.
* [AK] Microsoft Azure still pending. Need to discuss (with BH, TH) at some point how/if to proceed. 

Team training
=============

- status: application prepared, some details missing
- next steps: 
    - aproval from FZJ workers council, 
    - P-E will then take care of hiring TAQT, 
    - in the meantime we need to *set date, place*, 
    - and (finally) *travel arrangements*, when TAQT is hired. 

Misc
====

- Arbor citations:
    - "ConGen—A Simulator-Agnostic Visual Language for Definition and Generation of Connectivity in Large and Multiscale Neural Networks", http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fninf.2021.766697
    - "Efficient simulation of 3D reaction-diffusion in models of neurons and networks", http://dx.doi.org/10.1101/2022.01.01.474683
    - "SynCoPa: Visualizing Connectivity Paths and Synapses Over Detailed Morphologies", http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fninf.2021.753997
    - "A Modular Workflow for Performance Benchmarking of Neuronal Network Simulations"
- workshops:
    - WOIV'22: 6th International Workshop on In Situ Visualization, https://woiv.gitlab.io, Submission deadline: February 13, 2022
        - we don't really visualize any HPC workloads on situ.
    - JUWELS Booster Tuning and Scaling Workshop 2022, 7-11 March 2022, https://go.fzj.de/2022-jwb, online, goal to improve scaling and performance on many GPUs, register via the application form until 31 January 2022, https://indico-jsc.fz-juelich.de/event/266/registration/
        - use as hackathon? need a subject
- EC review:
    - Lots of reading and preparing (underpaid for the amount of time put into), but interesting scientific work and insights into review process, review meeting went well, now need to write review report. 

Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------

 
