Arbor Team Meeting 2022 01 18
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: BH, NA, LK, BC, FB, TH

domain decomposition
====================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1788/

https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1788/#discussion_r786553422
> the C++ domain_decomposition struct was designed for users to specify their own decomposition, or implement model-specific decomposition functions.
I don't think we want to restrict ourselves to the algorithms provided by Arbor, due to the difficulty of writing and maintaining algorithms that are applicable to all problems.

- If we agree that `domain_decomposition` should remain as it is in order to allow users to write their own partitioning algorithms, then we have given the users the tool to check their structs as early on as they want using the public `check_domain_decomposition` function. If the users neglect to do that, it will be checked again before the object is used in the constructor of `simulation`.
- However, we could argue that the users can use the newly added `partition_by_group` to create their own custom `domain_decomposition` objects and therefore the `domain_decomposition` struct doesn't need to remain as it is. The key bit of information that the user would be interested in (the different cell groupings on each rank) is passed as an argument to `partition_by_group` which then fills out the rest of the struct members. So, we could make the `domain_decomposition` struct more opaque to the users. We could make `partition_by_group` the only constructor of `domain_decomposition`, and we can perform the correctness check in the constructor.

arbor-build-catalogue
=====================
https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1784

- [NA] Reviewed what I can, but there are too many changes to fix various issues, and I would appreciate a meeting where we explain the main changes and why they were needed.
- [NA] The files I didn't review I am unfamiliar with. Review would probably go faster over VC. 

- VC tomorrow morning [bh][na][th] 10:00

Other open PRs
================================================

https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls
* 1716, it's [BH]s main occupation before release.

Meet w/ Seb on HBP collection for Nature
========================================

# WR

- [LK] 
- Max wants postpone the review/call due to clean-up.

# NML

- basically two commands from nml to Arbor

# Meson 


# Next week: Arbor retrospective


Partners
========

* (text-only updates preferable)


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------



Next time
---------
 
