Arbor Team Meeting 2022 03 08
=============================

Meeting link: https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000
Collaborative editing: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/new

Sort your input prior to meeting by importance. Add less important/less time senitive items in 'FYI' section.
Turn Issues and PRs you want to discuss into agenda items.

Presence: (TH), BH, 

nmlcc
=====
- Compiles (Lennart/Rocher)'s IO model in almost vanilla
- need to tweak conc model in NML due to the area issue.

AMPA Synapse
============
- CPU version compiles (not tested)
- Next: Test CPU version; write and test GPU version

Arblang
=======
- Onto code generation. 
- Will start with just denisty mechanisms / CPU code 
- Hopefully add point mechanisms / CPU code too 

Sebastians request
==================

* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1843
    * He needs a not cable_cell, but a custom cell.
        * Help him. We have to explain the interface. Basically copy and modify lif cell.
        * in the advanced portion of the lif cell we can do what we want
        * missing: sampling on lif cells. Nora didn't have the time. We don't have voltage at every dt.
        * 
        * Also: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1343
        * maybe shared features of no cable cell cells can be shared through recipe?
    * Instead: allow people to write their own cell impls, possibly by way of BYO cell group.
        * discuss later, maybe prioritize.

Team meetings and events
========================
- **Developer meeting**, sucessful, unfortunatly not as many participants as wished for
- **JUWELS Tuning & Booster workshop**, this week, ongoing
- **Team training** (2 half days) + Arborathon (1-3 days): doodle doesn't give a clear winner, but here are some suggestions for TAQT
    - *25th-29th April*
        - Mo-Wed hacking, 
        - Thu-Fr training 
        - Lukas off Mo/Tue, Fabian maybe Fr
        - Chosen!
    - *9th-13th May*
        - Mo-Wed hacking, 
        - Thu-Fr training
        - Lukas off Mo/Tue/Wed, Simon maybe all week, Fabian maybe Fr
    - *16th-20th May*, *30th May - 3rd June*, *7th-10th June (4 days)*
        - Lukas off, Simon maybe, Fabian maybe on Fr
- **Strategy meeting**: 21st March, 09:00-11:00
- **Joint lunch** before Weekly, Tuesdays, 12:00-12:30, here:  https://conf.dfn.de/webapp/#/?conference=979170431&pin=0000

Piz Daint ci error
==================

- Fabian: something is failing on single node run, don't understand. Something in env was updated.
    - Multi-node tests dont test everything, might not be running this test.
- 

Partners
========

* (text-only updates preferable)


Other Issues & PRs
==================

* https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pulls

For your information only
=========================
 * ..


End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------

Next time
---------
 
