Arbor Developer Meeting 2021 11 24
==================================

Meeting link: https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-clp-qgu-ypp
Minutes will be uploaded on github after the meeting: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor-materials/blob/master/minutes/devmeets/

Presence: ArborIO (Lennart Landsmeer (LL), Max Engelen (ME), Ali Hosseini (AH)), FIPPA (Sebastian Schmitt (SS)); Arbor (BH, NA, TH, AK)

Goals:
1. Collect issues from Kanban board (from columns 'next release' and 'in progress' and 'in review') to be implemented until next release v0.6, set priotization and rough timeline; set vision/goal
2. Do the same for next next release v0.7 as preparation

## Introductions (*name, group, role*)


## Big issues merged since v0.5.2, up for release in v0.6

* Features:
    * Mechanism ABI [#1376](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1376);
        * [ME] Can the mech abi build script also take in C++ (non nmodl)?
        * TODO [ME]: Please open an issue
        * TODO [AK]: Put this on top of backlog
        * TODO [TH]: Isolate against SIMDization mismatch
    * User-defined gap-junction mechanisms [#1600](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1600)
* Bug-fix:
    * Zero-radius segments in a morphology [#1526](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1526)
    * Incorrect indexing of v_peer in the generated vectorized code for gap-junction mechanisms [#1734](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1734)
* Incomplete features:
    * Python performance profiler [#1685](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1685) missing [PR#1691](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1691)
    * S-expression representation of CV-policies [#1334](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1334), [PR#1511]( https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1511) missing [#1765](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1765)
        * driven by [arbor-gui](https://github.com/arbor-sim/gui/) (formally to be released in v0.6); able to export to ACC format

Collection of Issues to be discussed
-------
*Sorted by 'in review', 'in progress', 'next release', 'backlog'*

| Issue #     | Description | Status       | Comments/Questions     | Agreement |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | -----------|
| [1722](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1722) | Solver 'sparse': error for constant value in ODE | in review | FIPPA; linked to [PR1755](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1755) | v0.6 |
| [PR1748](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1748)| Test separately built catalogues | in review | | v0.6
| []() |  |  |  |  |
| [1403](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1403) | Python installation through CMake improvements | in progress | v0.6?--> close; linked to [PR1413](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1413)? TODO: [BH] add comment to use `pip install` (core issue with cmake install is lib directory); [SS] use spack; TODO: [LL] will create issue for not installing arbor build cataloges with pip; this will be tagged v0.6| TODO: [BH] close |
| [1720](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1720) | Allow user to query the CV cables of a cable-cell | in progress | linked to [PR1758](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1758); not yet sure if it will be merged, [NA] will fight for it | v0.6 |
| [1621](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1621) | [NML2] Extend NeuroML Coverage | in progress | TODO: [LL+TH] get in contact for detailed discussion | v0.6 |
| [1651](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1651) | Support for axial diffusion | in progress | FIPPA; linked to PR draft [1729](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1729); breakout meeting 25th Nov, 10:00 https://meet.google.com/kay-rnke-ozp; more detail needed on concentration model| v0.7 || v0.7 |
| [1480](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1480)| Add epoch end time to spike callbacks | in progress | need more robust solution, discuss prio with [in-situ pipeline project](https://devhub.vr.rwth-aachen.de/VR-Group/in-situ-pipeline), TODO: [TH] will contact Wouter Kljin (co-sim) | v0.7 |
| []() |  |  |  |  |
| [1692](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1692) | Defaults: creating a context saturating local cpu | next release | linked [PR1716](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1716); needs updating (solve arbenv issue); Related [PR1725](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1725), recently merged| v0.6 |
| [1437](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1437) | Onboarding new developers: A guided tour of Arbor | next release | TODO: [BH] move checklist from PR to issue (and update), request [ME+LL] for review of PR when marked ready | Merge [PR1639](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1639) in v0.6 |
| [1263](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1263)| Probes for LIF cells | next release | ArborIO (for [ME], and Elias Fernandez), v0.7? --> ArborIO is using Mech ABI instead; [NA] keeps it in backlog for arbor feature. Partially related [1605 - BYO cell group](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1605) (no high prio for ArborIO, but would make arbor more attractable for users) | v0.7 | 
| [1232](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1232) | Streaming recording of sampled data and spikes | next release | (high) prio tbd with [in-situ pipeline project](https://devhub.vr.rwth-aachen.de/VR-Group/in-situ-pipeline) (v0.6/0.7)? TODO: [TH] discusses prio with Wouter Klijn (co-sim)| v0.7 |
| [1604](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1604) | Convert tutorials to Jupyter Notebooks | next release | TODO: [BH] planned a PR; [LL] IO cells will be on Jupyter notebooks and TODO: [LL] shares with arbor team when ready | v0.7 |
| [1369](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1369) | Documentation: tutorial structure, howtos | next release | ongoing work; TODO:[BH] planned a PR | v0.7 |
| []() |  |  |  |  |
| [1764](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1764) | Arbor-compatible NMODL representation of AMPA, NMDA, and GABA synapses | backlog | SY's [notes](https://demo.hedgedoc.org/HNQ4vBLlRDWWbC29BgYGMQ); feedback needed from ArborIO --> TODO: [NA] will contact Stefano Masoli; Robin Gilbert asked for it | no version (yet) |
| [1655](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1655) | Stochastic differential equations in mechanisms | backlog| ArborIO & FIPPA; to be implemented by Fabian Bösch (working parttime at CSCS); teams use patch with mech abi; [ME] can share CPU+GPU code (https://github.com/max9901/arbor/tree/master+EMC-Catalogue/mechanisms/EMC/EMC_Mechs); [NA] random123 will be a module; TODO: [ME] will open an issue for random123 errors with CUDA | v0.7 |
| [1705](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1705)| Change mechanism parameters during simulation| backlog | ArborIO & FIPPA, no longer prio [LL], but could still be a useful feature to have | v0.7 |
| [969](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/969)| More sophisticated domain decomposition | backlog | ArborIO; no need to implement the suggested solution, a more sophisticated method for partitioning cells across nodes, or at least make it possible to have a user-defined partitioning using the python interface, second step more complex | (v0.6-)v0.7 |
| [1650](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1650) |Inhomogeneous parameters | backlog | FIPPA; proposal for implementation sketched by Sam Yates; big feature; v0.6/v0.7/>? | v0.8 |
| [1343](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1343) | Voltage clamps | backlog | FIPPA; v0.7 (suggested by [SS]]); no specific prio; Espen Hagen might need this for LFPy(kit) | top of backlog, w/o tag |
| [1709](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1709) | Receive spikes on electrical gap junctions | backlog | ArborIO; more info needed to review feasibility: [LL] refers to paper in issue; [NA] keep synapse and GJ mechs and combine with fake ion; [LL] no high prio; TODO: [NA+LL] meet for details on paper in Dec2021 | top of backlog, w/o tag|
| []() |  |  |  |  |

More Issues/PRs?
------
* Mech ABI for other cells? Bring your own Cell group?
    * [NA] [1605](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1605)
    * no high prio for ArborIO, but makes arbor more attractable for users (v0.8)
* Contributions: https://github.com/arbor-contrib

Minor issues/bug fixes; issues not assigned
-----
| Issue #     | Description | Status       | Comments/Questions     | Agreement |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | -----------|
| [1767](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1767) | Uni-directional gap junctions | in review | linked to [PR1774](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1774) | v0.6 |
| [1752](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1752) | Bad Any Cast Error in C++ examples | next release | issues on Mac M1 linked to hidden visibility | v0.6 |
| [1022](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1022) | C++17 migration | next release | quality, TODO: [NA] verify with Ben Cumming before closing (only few minor issues open) | v0.7 |
|[1085](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1085); [1102](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1102) | Tidy SWC, morphology generation helpers; Replace `soma_cell_builder` with builder suitable for NeuroML morphology support) | next release | quality; partially covering but not completely; tackle at same time | backlog |
| []() |  |  |  |  |
| [1221](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1221) | Library-provided parameterized cell recipe | backlog | v0.7?; feature; not assigned; remove from next release? yes; [TH] is using Learning-2-Learn | top of backlog; v0.7 |
| [1765](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/issues/1765) | Allow s-expr cv-policies using the python interface | backlog | v0.7; not assigned; remove from next release? yes | backlog |

Summary: Arbor Next Release v0.6 - 19 Jan 22
==========

* Kanban: https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* Goal/Vision:
    * include features supporting USERS such as [arbor-gui](https://github.com/arbor-sim/gui/), mechanism ABI, user-defined gap junction mechanisms, querying CV cables of a cable-cell, NeuroML Coverage, more sophisticated domain decomposition, and uni-directional gap junctions
    * include features supporting DEVELOPERS such as profiling, onboarding new developers

Summary: Arbor Next Next Release v0.7 - ~13 Apr 22
==========

* Kanban: https://github.com/orgs/arbor-sim/projects/3
* Goal/Vision: to be set in next developer meeting in February 2022

End
===

TODO and Decisions
------------------
* See issue related TODOs in tables above
* [AK] follow up in mail, update Kanban board

Chatlog
-------

[09:58] Welcome to Arbor Developer Meeting!For help on using BigBlueButton see these (short) tutorial videos.To join the audio bridge click the phone button.  Use a headset to avoid causing background noise for others.To join this meeting by phone, dial:  +49 2461 61 9895Then enter 87877 as the conference PIN number.
[09:58] Um jemanden zur Konferenz einzuladen, schicken Sie ihm diesen Link: https://webconf.fz-juelich.de/b/hui-clp-qgu-ypp
[09:59] Huisman, Brent: https://demo.hedgedoc.org/EWHfSffPQuWI-n3jwmDLYg?view
[10:08] Amo: Hello, I am in lab I can only type! sorry
[10:09] Amo: Im Prof Giugliano's student. We are working on PRNG validation, in collaboration with Mario
[10:11] Huisman, Brent: Thanks Amo! Can you add your (full) name to the agenda/minutes in the link above?
[10:11] Amo: sure
[10:26] Huisman, Brent: https://github.com/arbor-sim/gui/
[10:33] Huisman, Brent: https://docs.arbor-sim.org/en/stable/install/python.html
[10:47] Lennart: My diffusion simulation knowledge goes as far as having implemented this paper in C code: https://papers.cnl.salk.edu/PDFs/An%20Electro-Diffusion%20Model%20for%20Computing%20Membrane%20Potentials%20and%20Ionic%20Concentrations%20in%20Branching%20Dendrites,%20Spines%20and%20Axons%201989-3630.pdf
[10:48] Lennart: But I wouldn't say I'm versed in the mathematics of it
[10:48] Nora: Thanks Lennart
[10:53] Lennart: https://github.com/llandsmeer/io/tree/main/SmolModelPorts
[10:54] Lennart: In the end I only change gmax (and the parameters of some custom mechanisms of course)
[10:54] Lennart: But that might be different for others
[10:56] Lennart: Maybe just exposing the parameters of channelDensity (gmax, erev) would be a good start and in line with what you can edit from within the neuroml <biophysicalProperties> tag
[11:03] Sebastian Schmitt: @lennart is the SmolModelPorts not public?
[11:04] Lennart: Yes, it'll be public after I finish my master thesis
[11:04] Lennart: I can invite you, what's you username?
[11:10] Sebastian Schmitt: schmitts
[11:15] Lennart: Invited
[11:17] Lennart: Its only v1 btw, for v2 & v3 of the neuroml model I just switched to nmodl editing
[11:18] Lennart: https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/pull/1639
[11:20] Huisman, Brent: @Lennart Yep, that's the PR indeed
[11:22] Lennart: https://arbor-rtd-dev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/dev/index.html
[11:23] Lennart: back in 5 min
[11:36] Lennart: https://github.com/max9901/arbor/tree/feature/EMC-catalogue/mechanisms/EMC/EMC_Mechs
[11:37] Lennart: The ou_noise_* files implement OU current noise on any component
[11:37] Lennart: you paint it on
[11:37] Lennart: I guess you could copy in the entire EMC directory into arbor/mechanisms
[11:38] Lennart: And maybe fetch the latest random123 source / copy it over as the CUDA code is removed
[11:44] Lennart: Local  / global noise component where global is cell group local
[11:45] Lennart: where the theta/sigma/mu components refer to the underlying ornstein-uhlenbeck process and alpha is the mixing between global and local components
[11:49] max: this one is better:
https://github.com/max9901/arbor/tree/master+EMC-Catalogue/mechanisms/EMC/EMC_Mechs
[12:14] Huisman, Brent: https://github.com/arbor-contrib
