Presence
========

Brent Huisman (BH), Ben Cumming (BC), Max Engelen (ME), Thorsten Hater (TH), Lennart Landsmeer (LL), Rocher Smol (RS), Nora Abi Akar (NA), Sebastian Schmitt (SS), Mario Negrello (MN), Sotirios Panagiotou (SP), Christos Strydis (CS), Alice Geminiani (AG), Claudia Casellato (CC), Robin De Schepper (RDS), Elias Fernandez (ES), Sam Yates (SY yates@cscs.ch), (Amo) Ali Hosseini (AH), Michele GIUGLIANO (MG)

Agenda
======

* 10 minutes: Brief introductions
* 30 minutes: Team Arbor presents Arbor
    - Overview of Arbor's goals and target audience
    - Arbor software design constraints
    - Arbor features (focus on those in the ArborIO request)
    - 15 minutes of slides, with Q&A
* 10 minutes: BREAK
* 30 minutes: discussion of ArborIO project's requirements
* 10 minutes: decide on next steps
    - Follow up meetings
    - Define a "bootstrap" model

Outcomes
========

1. Familiarize everyone in the project with Arbor
2. Define a bootstrap model, which could be as simple as a single cell model, that will be the first working model in Arbor. The process of building the model will familiarize ArborIO partners with Arbor.

Minutes/Notes
=============

* [Earlier: Tech Questions](https://github.com/arbor-sim/arbor/wiki/ArborIO-Technical-Questions)
* During the break Egidio and Mario started discussing ambitious plans for the models.
    * Egidio proposes composing the olive and cortex as "modules" that can be connected (using connectivity data from Allen Brain Atlas)
    * Egidio: gap junctions are the next feature to implement for the cortex model (Golgi cell network, stellate and basket cell network)
* Starfish
    * Mario: stochastic noise sources, with control over seeding and correlation, potentially delivered to every cell *compartment*, are a key feature for the starfish model
    * Mario: calcium dynamics mediated gap junction plasticity also needed
* Cortex
    * Egidio: gave Arbor individual models a couple of years ago
    * Ben: got those running, but the synapse models were more than we could simulate at the time
    * Egidio: we can use simpler synapse models as a stop gap
    * Robin: we can build a small network based on the NMODL mechanisms ported to Arbor for the Purkinje model
* Christos: let's look at two tracks (modeling and architecture)
    * track 1: take Arbor features of the shelf to build bootstrap model, can we then extend the models with things like distributed gap junctions without slowing down from vanilla version.
    * track 2: architectural discussion about the simulator.
* Christos has doubts about relaxation method
    * for dense networks relaxation methods become more constrained.
* Christos: an architecture overview of Arbor would be a good starting point.
* Max: how about just trying to do gap junctions with single dt (the obvious naive approach) to
    * find a lower bound for performance
    * get hands dirty in the code
    * Nora: that's might not be too hard
    *


Actions
=======

* Start on two parallel tracks.
    * track 1: take Arbor features of the shelf to build bootstrap model, can we then extend the models with things like distributed gap junctions without slowing down from vanilla version.
    * track 2: architectural discussion about the simulator.
















